####75#QP-1
#RC#P1-1 (Medium)#C#100
The modern multinational corporation is described as having originated when the owner-managers of nineteenth-century British firms carrying on international trade were replaced by teams of salaried managers organized into hierarchies. Increases in the volume of transactions in such firms are commonly believed to have necessitated this structural change. Nineteenth-century inventions the steamship and the telegraph, by facilitating coordination of managerial activities, are described as key factors. Sixteenth- and seventeenth-century chartered trading companies, despite the international scope of their activities, are usually considered irrelevant to this discussion: the volume of their transactions is assumed to have been too low and the communications and transport of their day too primitive to make comparisons with modern multinationals interesting.<br><br>In reality, however, early trading companies successfully purchased and outfitted ships, built and operated offices and warehouses, manufactured trade goods for use abroad, maintained trading posts and production facilities overseas, procured goods for import, and sold those goods both at home and in other countries. The large volume of transactions associated with these activities seems to have necessitated hierarchical management structures well before the advent of modern communications and transportation. For example, in the Hudson's Bay Company, each trading outpost was managed by a salaried agent, who carried out the trade with the Native Americans, managed day-to-day operations, and oversaw the post's workers and servants. One chief agent, answerable to the Court of Directors in London through the correspondence committee, was appointed with control over all of the agents on the bay.<br><br>The early trading companies did differ strikingly from modern multinationals in many respects. They depended heavily on the national governments of their home countries and thus characteristically acted abroad to promote national interests. Their top managers were typically owners with a substantial minority share, whereas senior managers’ holdings in modern multinationals are usually insignificant. They operated in a preindustrial world, grafting a system of capitalist international trade onto a pre-modern system of artisan and peasant production. Despite these differences, however, early trading companies organized effectively in remarkably modern ways and merit further study as analogues of more modern structures.
The author's main point is that
(A) modern multinationals originated in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries with the establishment of chartered trading companies
(B) the success of early chartered trading companies, like that of modern multinationals, depended primarily on their ability to carry out complex operations
(C) early chartered trading companies should be more seriously considered by scholars studying the origins of modern multinationals
(D) scholars are quite mistaken concerning the origins of modern multinationals
(E) the management structures of early chartered trading companies are fundamentally the same as those of modern multinationals
---------------------------------
#RC#P1-2 (Medium)#A#200
The modern multinational corporation is described as having originated when the owner-managers of nineteenth-century British firms carrying on international trade were replaced by teams of salaried managers organized into hierarchies. Increases in the volume of transactions in such firms are commonly believed to have necessitated this structural change. Nineteenth-century inventions the steamship and the telegraph, by facilitating coordination of managerial activities, are described as key factors. Sixteenth- and seventeenth-century chartered trading companies, despite the international scope of their activities, are usually considered irrelevant to this discussion: the volume of their transactions is assumed to have been too low and the communications and transport of their day too primitive to make comparisons with modern multinationals interesting.<br><br>In reality, however, early trading companies successfully purchased and outfitted ships, built and operated offices and warehouses, manufactured trade goods for use abroad, maintained trading posts and production facilities overseas, procured goods for import, and sold those goods both at home and in other countries. The large volume of transactions associated with these activities seems to have necessitated hierarchical management structures well before the advent of modern communications and transportation. For example, in the Hudson's Bay Company, each trading outpost was managed by a salaried agent, who carried out the trade with the Native Americans, managed day-to-day operations, and oversaw the post's workers and servants. One chief agent, answerable to the Court of Directors in London through the correspondence committee, was appointed with control over all of the agents on the bay.<br><br>The early trading companies did differ strikingly from modern multinationals in many respects. They depended heavily on the national governments of their home countries and thus characteristically acted abroad to promote national interests. Their top managers were typically owners with a substantial minority share, whereas senior managers’ holdings in modern multinationals are usually insignificant. They operated in a preindustrial world, grafting a system of capitalist international trade onto a pre-modern system of artisan and peasant production. Despite these differences, however, early trading companies organized effectively in remarkably modern ways and merit further study as analogues of more modern structures.
It can be inferred from the passage that the author would characterize the activities engaged in by early chartered trading companies as being
(A) complex enough in scope to require a substantial amount of planning and coordination on the part of management
(B) too simple to be considered similar to those of a modern multinational corporation
(C) as intricate as those carried out by the largest multinational corporations today
(D) often unprofitable due to slow communications and unreliable means of transportation
(E) hampered by the political demands imposed on them by the governments of their home countries
---------------------------------
#RC#P1-3 (Hard)#C#300
The modern multinational corporation is described as having originated when the owner-managers of nineteenth-century British firms carrying on international trade were replaced by teams of salaried managers organized into hierarchies. Increases in the volume of transactions in such firms are commonly believed to have necessitated this structural change. Nineteenth-century inventions the steamship and the telegraph, by facilitating coordination of managerial activities, are described as key factors. Sixteenth- and seventeenth-century chartered trading companies, despite the international scope of their activities, are usually considered irrelevant to this discussion: the volume of their transactions is assumed to have been too low and the communications and transport of their day too primitive to make comparisons with modern multinationals interesting.<br><br>In reality, however, early trading companies successfully purchased and outfitted ships, built and operated offices and warehouses, manufactured trade goods for use abroad, maintained trading posts and production facilities overseas, procured goods for import, and sold those goods both at home and in other countries. The large volume of transactions associated with these activities seems to have necessitated hierarchical management structures well before the advent of modern communications and transportation. For example, in the Hudson's Bay Company, each trading outpost was managed by a salaried agent, who carried out the trade with the Native Americans, managed day-to-day operations, and oversaw the post's workers and servants. One chief agent, answerable to the Court of Directors in London through the correspondence committee, was appointed with control over all of the agents on the bay.<br><br>The early trading companies did differ strikingly from modern multinationals in many respects. They depended heavily on the national governments of their home countries and thus characteristically acted abroad to promote national interests. Their top managers were typically owners with a substantial minority share, whereas senior managers’ holdings in modern multinationals are usually insignificant. They operated in a preindustrial world, grafting a system of capitalist international trade onto a pre-modern system of artisan and peasant production. Despite these differences, however, early trading companies organized effectively in remarkably modern ways and merit further study as analogues of more modern structures.
The author the various activities of early chartered trading companies in order to
(A) analyze the various ways in which these activities contributed to changes in management structure in such companies
(B) demonstrate that the volume of business transactions of such companies exceeded that of earlier firms
(C) refute the view that the volume of business undertaken by such companies was relatively low
(D) emphasize the international scope of these companies’ operations
(E) support the argument that such firms coordinated such activities by using available means of communication and transport
---------------------------------
#RC#P1-4 (Medium)#B#400
The modern multinational corporation is described as having originated when the owner-managers of nineteenth-century British firms carrying on international trade were replaced by teams of salaried managers organized into hierarchies. Increases in the volume of transactions in such firms are commonly believed to have necessitated this structural change. Nineteenth-century inventions the steamship and the telegraph, by facilitating coordination of managerial activities, are described as key factors. Sixteenth- and seventeenth-century chartered trading companies, despite the international scope of their activities, are usually considered irrelevant to this discussion: the volume of their transactions is assumed to have been too low and the communications and transport of their day too primitive to make comparisons with modern multinationals interesting.<br><br>In reality, however, early trading companies successfully purchased and outfitted ships, built and operated offices and warehouses, manufactured trade goods for use abroad, maintained trading posts and production facilities overseas, procured goods for import, and sold those goods both at home and in other countries. The large volume of transactions associated with these activities seems to have necessitated hierarchical management structures well before the advent of modern communications and transportation. For example, in the Hudson's Bay Company, each trading outpost was managed by a salaried agent, who carried out the trade with the Native Americans, managed day-to-day operations, and oversaw the post's workers and servants. One chief agent, answerable to the Court of Directors in London through the correspondence committee, was appointed with control over all of the agents on the bay.<br><br>The early trading companies did differ strikingly from modern multinationals in many respects. They depended heavily on the national governments of their home countries and thus characteristically acted abroad to promote national interests. Their top managers were typically owners with a substantial minority share, whereas senior managers’ holdings in modern multinationals are usually insignificant. They operated in a preindustrial world, grafting a system of capitalist international trade onto a pre-modern system of artisan and peasant production. Despite these differences, however, early trading companies organized effectively in remarkably modern ways and merit further study as analogues of more modern structures.
With which of the following generalizations regarding management structures would the author of the passage most probably agree?
(A) Hierarchical management structures are the most efficient management structures possible in a modern context.
(B) Firms that routinely have a high volume of business transactions find it necessary to adopt hierarchical management structures.
(C) Hierarchical management structures cannot be successfully implemented without modern communications and transportation.
(D) Modern multinational firms with a relatively small volume of business transactions usually do not have hierarchically organized management structures.
(E) Companies that adopt hierarchical management structures usually do so in order to facilitate expansion into foreign trade.
---------------------------------
#RC#P1-5 (Medium)#E#500
The modern multinational corporation is described as having originated when the owner-managers of nineteenth-century British firms carrying on international trade were replaced by teams of salaried managers organized into hierarchies. Increases in the volume of transactions in such firms are commonly believed to have necessitated this structural change. Nineteenth-century inventions the steamship and the telegraph, by facilitating coordination of managerial activities, are described as key factors. Sixteenth- and seventeenth-century chartered trading companies, despite the international scope of their activities, are usually considered irrelevant to this discussion: the volume of their transactions is assumed to have been too low and the communications and transport of their day too primitive to make comparisons with modern multinationals interesting.<br><br>In reality, however, early trading companies successfully purchased and outfitted ships, built and operated offices and warehouses, manufactured trade goods for use abroad, maintained trading posts and production facilities overseas, procured goods for import, and sold those goods both at home and in other countries. The large volume of transactions associated with these activities seems to have necessitated hierarchical management structures well before the advent of modern communications and transportation. For example, in the Hudson's Bay Company, each trading outpost was managed by a salaried agent, who carried out the trade with the Native Americans, managed day-to-day operations, and oversaw the post's workers and servants. One chief agent, answerable to the Court of Directors in London through the correspondence committee, was appointed with control over all of the agents on the bay.<br><br>The early trading companies did differ strikingly from modern multinationals in many respects. They depended heavily on the national governments of their home countries and thus characteristically acted abroad to promote national interests. Their top managers were typically owners with a substantial minority share, whereas senior managers’ holdings in modern multinationals are usually insignificant. They operated in a preindustrial world, grafting a system of capitalist international trade onto a pre-modern system of artisan and peasant production. Despite these differences, however, early trading companies organized effectively in remarkably modern ways and merit further study as analogues of more modern structures.
The passage suggests that modern multinationals differ from early chartered trading companies in that
(A) the top managers of modern multinationals own stock in their own companies rather than simply receiving a salary
(B) modern multinationals depend on a system of capitalist international trade rather than on less modern trading systems
(C) modern multinationals have operations in a number of different foreign countries rather than merely in one or two
(D) the operations of modern multinationals are highly profitable despite the more stringent environmental and safety regulations of modern governments
(E) the overseas operations of modern multinationals are not governed by the national interests of their home countries
---------------------------------
#RC#P2-1 (Hard)#D#600
A meteor stream is composed of dust particles that have been ejected from a parent comet at a variety of velocities. These particles follow the same orbit as the parent comet, but due to their differing velocities they slowly gain on or fall behind the disintegrating comet until a shroud of dust surrounds the entire cometary orbit. Astronomers have hypothesized that a meteor stream should broaden with time as the dust particles’ individual orbits are perturbed by planetary gravitational fields. A recent computer-modeling experiment tested this hypothesis by tracking the influence of planetary gravitation over a projected 5,000-year period on the position of a group of hypothetical dust particles. In the model, the particles were randomly distributed throughout a computer simulation of the orbit of an actual meteor stream, the Geminid. The researcher found, as expected, that the computer-model stream broadened with time. Conventional theories, however, predicted that the distribution of particles would be increasingly dense toward the center of a meteor stream. Surprisingly, the computer-model meteor stream gradually came to resemble a thick-walled, hollow pipe.<br><br>Whenever the Earth passes through a meteor stream, a meteor shower occurs. Moving at over 1,500,000 miles per day around its orbit, the Earth would take, on average, just over a day to cross the hollow, computer-model Geminid stream if the stream were 5,000 years old. Two brief periods of peak meteor activity during the shower would be observed, one as the Earth entered the thick-walled “pipe" and one as it exited. There is no reason why the Earth should always pass through the stream's exact center, so the time interval between the two bursts of activity would vary from one year to the next.<br><br>Has the predicted twin-peaked activity been observed for the actual yearly Geminid meteor shower? The Geminid data between 1970 and 1979 show just such a bifurcation, a secondary burst of meteor activity being clearly visible at an average of 19 hours (1,200,000 miles) after the first burst. The time intervals between the bursts suggest the actual Geminid stream is about 3,000 years old.
The author states that the research described in the first paragraph was undertaken in order to
(A) determine the age of an actual meteor stream
(B) identify the various structural features of meteor streams
(C) explore the nature of a particularly interesting meteor stream
(D) test the hypothesis that meteor streams become broader as they age
(E) show that a computer model could help in explaining actual astronomical data
---------------------------------
#RC#P2-2 (Hard)#A#700
A meteor stream is composed of dust particles that have been ejected from a parent comet at a variety of velocities. These particles follow the same orbit as the parent comet, but due to their differing velocities they slowly gain on or fall behind the disintegrating comet until a shroud of dust surrounds the entire cometary orbit. Astronomers have hypothesized that a meteor stream should broaden with time as the dust particles’ individual orbits are perturbed by planetary gravitational fields. A recent computer-modeling experiment tested this hypothesis by tracking the influence of planetary gravitation over a projected 5,000-year period on the position of a group of hypothetical dust particles. In the model, the particles were randomly distributed throughout a computer simulation of the orbit of an actual meteor stream, the Geminid. The researcher found, as expected, that the computer-model stream broadened with time. Conventional theories, however, predicted that the distribution of particles would be increasingly dense toward the center of a meteor stream. Surprisingly, the computer-model meteor stream gradually came to resemble a thick-walled, hollow pipe.<br><br>Whenever the Earth passes through a meteor stream, a meteor shower occurs. Moving at over 1,500,000 miles per day around its orbit, the Earth would take, on average, just over a day to cross the hollow, computer-model Geminid stream if the stream were 5,000 years old. Two brief periods of peak meteor activity during the shower would be observed, one as the Earth entered the thick-walled “pipe" and one as it exited. There is no reason why the Earth should always pass through the stream's exact center, so the time interval between the two bursts of activity would vary from one year to the next.<br><br>Has the predicted twin-peaked activity been observed for the actual yearly Geminid meteor shower? The Geminid data between 1970 and 1979 show just such a bifurcation, a secondary burst of meteor activity being clearly visible at an average of 19 hours (1,200,000 miles) after the first burst. The time intervals between the bursts suggest the actual Geminid stream is about 3,000 years old.
It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following would most probably be observed during the Earth's passage through a meteor stream if the conventional theories mentioned in the highlighted text were correct?
(A) Meteor activity would gradually increase to a single, intense peak, and then gradually decline.
(B) Meteor activity would be steady throughout the period of the meteor shower.
(C) Meteor activity would rise to a peak at the beginning and at the end of the meteor shower.
(D) Random bursts of very high meteor activity would be interspersed with periods of very activity.
(E) In years in which the Earth passed through only the outer areas of a meteor stream, meteor activity would be absent.
---------------------------------
#RC#P2-3 (Hard)#A#800
A meteor stream is composed of dust particles that have been ejected from a parent comet at a variety of velocities. These particles follow the same orbit as the parent comet, but due to their differing velocities they slowly gain on or fall behind the disintegrating comet until a shroud of dust surrounds the entire cometary orbit. Astronomers have hypothesized that a meteor stream should broaden with time as the dust particles’ individual orbits are perturbed by planetary gravitational fields. A recent computer-modeling experiment tested this hypothesis by tracking the influence of planetary gravitation over a projected 5,000-year period on the position of a group of hypothetical dust particles. In the model, the particles were randomly distributed throughout a computer simulation of the orbit of an actual meteor stream, the Geminid. The researcher found, as expected, that the computer-model stream broadened with time. Conventional theories, however, predicted that the distribution of particles would be increasingly dense toward the center of a meteor stream. Surprisingly, the computer-model meteor stream gradually came to resemble a thick-walled, hollow pipe.<br><br>Whenever the Earth passes through a meteor stream, a meteor shower occurs. Moving at over 1,500,000 miles per day around its orbit, the Earth would take, on average, just over a day to cross the hollow, computer-model Geminid stream if the stream were 5,000 years old. Two brief periods of peak meteor activity during the shower would be observed, one as the Earth entered the thick-walled “pipe" and one as it exited. There is no reason why the Earth should always pass through the stream's exact center, so the time interval between the two bursts of activity would vary from one year to the next.<br><br>Has the predicted twin-peaked activity been observed for the actual yearly Geminid meteor shower? The Geminid data between 1970 and 1979 show just such a bifurcation, a secondary burst of meteor activity being clearly visible at an average of 19 hours (1,200,000 miles) after the first burst. The time intervals between the bursts suggest the actual Geminid stream is about 3,000 years old.
According to the passage, why do the dust particles in a meteor stream eventually surround a comet's original orbit?
(A) They are ejected by the comet at differing velocities.
(B) Their orbits are uncontrolled by planetary gravitational fields.
(C) They become part of the meteor stream at different times.
(D) Their velocity slows over time.
(E) Their ejection velocity is slower than that of the comet.
---------------------------------
#RC#P2-4 (Hard)#D#900
A meteor stream is composed of dust particles that have been ejected from a parent comet at a variety of velocities. These particles follow the same orbit as the parent comet, but due to their differing velocities they slowly gain on or fall behind the disintegrating comet until a shroud of dust surrounds the entire cometary orbit. Astronomers have hypothesized that a meteor stream should broaden with time as the dust particles’ individual orbits are perturbed by planetary gravitational fields. A recent computer-modeling experiment tested this hypothesis by tracking the influence of planetary gravitation over a projected 5,000-year period on the position of a group of hypothetical dust particles. In the model, the particles were randomly distributed throughout a computer simulation of the orbit of an actual meteor stream, the Geminid. The researcher found, as expected, that the computer-model stream broadened with time. Conventional theories, however, predicted that the distribution of particles would be increasingly dense toward the center of a meteor stream. Surprisingly, the computer-model meteor stream gradually came to resemble a thick-walled, hollow pipe.<br><br>Whenever the Earth passes through a meteor stream, a meteor shower occurs. Moving at over 1,500,000 miles per day around its orbit, the Earth would take, on average, just over a day to cross the hollow, computer-model Geminid stream if the stream were 5,000 years old. Two brief periods of peak meteor activity during the shower would be observed, one as the Earth entered the thick-walled “pipe" and one as it exited. There is no reason why the Earth should always pass through the stream's exact center, so the time interval between the two bursts of activity would vary from one year to the next.<br><br>Has the predicted twin-peaked activity been observed for the actual yearly Geminid meteor shower? The Geminid data between 1970 and 1979 show just such a bifurcation, a secondary burst of meteor activity being clearly visible at an average of 19 hours (1,200,000 miles) after the first burst. The time intervals between the bursts suggest the actual Geminid stream is about 3,000 years old.
The passage suggests that which of the following is a prediction concerning meteor streams that can be derived from both the conventional theories mentioned in the highlighted text and the new computer derived theory?
(A) Dust particles in a meteor stream will usually be distributed evenly throughout any cross section of the stream.
(B) The orbits of most meteor streams should cross the orbit of the Earth at some point and give rise to a meteor shower.
(C) Over time the distribution of dust in a meteor stream will usually become denser at the outside edges of the stream than at the center.
(D) Meteor showers caused by older meteor streams should be, on average, longer in duration than those caused by very young meteor streams.
(E) The individual dust particles in older meteor streams should be, on average, smaller than those that compose younger meteor streams.
---------------------------------
#RC#P2-5 (Medium)#E#1000
A meteor stream is composed of dust particles that have been ejected from a parent comet at a variety of velocities. These particles follow the same orbit as the parent comet, but due to their differing velocities they slowly gain on or fall behind the disintegrating comet until a shroud of dust surrounds the entire cometary orbit. Astronomers have hypothesized that a meteor stream should broaden with time as the dust particles’ individual orbits are perturbed by planetary gravitational fields. A recent computer-modeling experiment tested this hypothesis by tracking the influence of planetary gravitation over a projected 5,000-year period on the position of a group of hypothetical dust particles. In the model, the particles were randomly distributed throughout a computer simulation of the orbit of an actual meteor stream, the Geminid. The researcher found, as expected, that the computer-model stream broadened with time. Conventional theories, however, predicted that the distribution of particles would be increasingly dense toward the center of a meteor stream. Surprisingly, the computer-model meteor stream gradually came to resemble a thick-walled, hollow pipe.<br><br>Whenever the Earth passes through a meteor stream, a meteor shower occurs. Moving at over 1,500,000 miles per day around its orbit, the Earth would take, on average, just over a day to cross the hollow, computer-model Geminid stream if the stream were 5,000 years old. Two brief periods of peak meteor activity during the shower would be observed, one as the Earth entered the thick-walled “pipe" and one as it exited. There is no reason why the Earth should always pass through the stream's exact center, so the time interval between the two bursts of activity would vary from one year to the next.<br><br>Has the predicted twin-peaked activity been observed for the actual yearly Geminid meteor shower? The Geminid data between 1970 and 1979 show just such a bifurcation, a secondary burst of meteor activity being clearly visible at an average of 19 hours (1,200,000 miles) after the first burst. The time intervals between the bursts suggest the actual Geminid stream is about 3,000 years old.
Which of the following is an assumption underlying the last sentence of the passage?
(A) In each of the years between 1970 and 1979, the Earth took exactly 19 hours to cross the Geminid meteor stream.
(B) The comet associated with the Geminid meteor stream has totally disintegrated.
(C) The Geminid meteor stream should continue to exist for at least 5,000 years.
(D) The Geminid meteor stream has not broadened as rapidly as the conventional theories would have predicted.
(E) The computer—model Geminid meteor stream provides an accurate representation of the development of the actual Geminid stream.
---------------------------------
#RC#P3-1 (Medium)#C#1100
Two recent publications offer different assessments of the career of the famous British nurse Florence Nightingale. A book by Anne Summers seeks to debunk the idealizations and present a reality at odds with Nightingale's heroic reputation. According to Summers, Nightingale's importance during the Crimean War has been exaggerated: not until near the war's end did she become supervisor of the female nurses. Additionally, Summers writes that the contribution of the nurses to the relief of the wounded was at best marginal. The prevailing problems of military medicine were caused by army organizational practices, and the addition of a few nurses to the medical staff could be no more than symbolic. Nightingale’s place in the national pantheon, Summers asserts, is largely due to the propagandistic efforts of contemporary newspaper reporters.<br><br>By contrast, the editors of a new volume of Nightingale's letters view Nightingale as a person who significantly influenced not only her own age but also subsequent generations. They highlight her ongoing efforts to reform sanitary conditions after the war. For example, when she learned that peacetime living conditions in British barracks were so horrible that the death rate of enlisted men far exceeded that of neighboring civilian populations, she succeeded in persuading the government to establish a Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. She used sums raised through public contributions to found a nurses’ training hospital in London. Even in administrative matters, the editors assert, her practical intelligence was formidable: as recently as 1947 the British Army's medical services were still using the cost-accounting system she had devised in the 1860's.<br><br>I believe that the evidence of her letters supports continued respect for Nightingale's brilliance and creativity. When counseling a village schoolmaster to encourage children to use their faculties of observation, she sounds like a modern educator. Her insistence on classifying the problems of the needy in order to devise appropriate treatments is similar to the approach of modern social workers. In sum, although Nightingale may not have achieved all of her goals during the Crimean War, her breadth of vision and ability to realize ambitious projects have earned her an eminent place among the ranks of social pioneers.
The passage is primarily concerned with evaluating
(A) the importance of Florence Nightingale's innovations in the field of nursing
(B) contrasting approaches to the writing of historical biography
(C) contradictory accounts of Florence Nightingale’s historical significance
(D) the quality of health care in nineteenth century England
(E) the effect of the Crimean War on developments in the field of health care
---------------------------------
#RC#P3-2 (Hard)#E#1200
Two recent publications offer different assessments of the career of the famous British nurse Florence Nightingale. A book by Anne Summers seeks to debunk the idealizations and present a reality at odds with Nightingale's heroic reputation. According to Summers, Nightingale's importance during the Crimean War has been exaggerated: not until near the war's end did she become supervisor of the female nurses. Additionally, Summers writes that the contribution of the nurses to the relief of the wounded was at best marginal. The prevailing problems of military medicine were caused by army organizational practices, and the addition of a few nurses to the medical staff could be no more than symbolic. Nightingale’s place in the national pantheon, Summers asserts, is largely due to the propagandistic efforts of contemporary newspaper reporters.<br><br>By contrast, the editors of a new volume of Nightingale's letters view Nightingale as a person who significantly influenced not only her own age but also subsequent generations. They highlight her ongoing efforts to reform sanitary conditions after the war. For example, when she learned that peacetime living conditions in British barracks were so horrible that the death rate of enlisted men far exceeded that of neighboring civilian populations, she succeeded in persuading the government to establish a Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. She used sums raised through public contributions to found a nurses’ training hospital in London. Even in administrative matters, the editors assert, her practical intelligence was formidable: as recently as 1947 the British Army's medical services were still using the cost-accounting system she had devised in the 1860's.<br><br>I believe that the evidence of her letters supports continued respect for Nightingale's brilliance and creativity. When counseling a village schoolmaster to encourage children to use their faculties of observation, she sounds like a modern educator. Her insistence on classifying the problems of the needy in order to devise appropriate treatments is similar to the approach of modern social workers. In sum, although Nightingale may not have achieved all of her goals during the Crimean War, her breadth of vision and ability to realize ambitious projects have earned her an eminent place among the ranks of social pioneers.
According to the passage, the editors of Nightingale’s letters credit her with contributing to which of the following?
(A) Improvement of the survival rate for soldiers in British Army hospitals during the Crimean War
(B) The development of a nurses’ training curriculum that was far in advance of its day
(C) The increase in the number of women doctors practicing in British Army hospitals
(D) Establishment of the first facility for training nurses at a major British university
(E) The creation of an organization for monitoring the peacetime Irving conditions of British soldiers
---------------------------------
#RC#P3-3 (Easy)#D#1300
Two recent publications offer different assessments of the career of the famous British nurse Florence Nightingale. A book by Anne Summers seeks to debunk the idealizations and present a reality at odds with Nightingale's heroic reputation. According to Summers, Nightingale's importance during the Crimean War has been exaggerated: not until near the war's end did she become supervisor of the female nurses. Additionally, Summers writes that the contribution of the nurses to the relief of the wounded was at best marginal. The prevailing problems of military medicine were caused by army organizational practices, and the addition of a few nurses to the medical staff could be no more than symbolic. Nightingale’s place in the national pantheon, Summers asserts, is largely due to the propagandistic efforts of contemporary newspaper reporters.<br><br>By contrast, the editors of a new volume of Nightingale's letters view Nightingale as a person who significantly influenced not only her own age but also subsequent generations. They highlight her ongoing efforts to reform sanitary conditions after the war. For example, when she learned that peacetime living conditions in British barracks were so horrible that the death rate of enlisted men far exceeded that of neighboring civilian populations, she succeeded in persuading the government to establish a Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. She used sums raised through public contributions to found a nurses’ training hospital in London. Even in administrative matters, the editors assert, her practical intelligence was formidable: as recently as 1947 the British Army's medical services were still using the cost-accounting system she had devised in the 1860's.<br><br>I believe that the evidence of her letters supports continued respect for Nightingale's brilliance and creativity. When counseling a village schoolmaster to encourage children to use their faculties of observation, she sounds like a modern educator. Her insistence on classifying the problems of the needy in order to devise appropriate treatments is similar to the approach of modern social workers. In sum, although Nightingale may not have achieved all of her goals during the Crimean War, her breadth of vision and ability to realize ambitious projects have earned her an eminent place among the ranks of social pioneers.
The passage suggests which of the following about Nightingale’s relationship with the British public of her day?
(A) She was highly respected, her projects receiving popular and governmental support.
(B) She encountered resistance both from the army establishment and the general public.
(C) She was supported by the working classes and opposed by the wealthier classes.
(D) She was supported by the military establishment but had to fight the governmental bureaucrat.
(E) After initially being received with enthusiasm, she was quickly forgotten.
---------------------------------
#RC#P3-4 (Easy)#A#1400
Two recent publications offer different assessments of the career of the famous British nurse Florence Nightingale. A book by Anne Summers seeks to debunk the idealizations and present a reality at odds with Nightingale's heroic reputation. According to Summers, Nightingale's importance during the Crimean War has been exaggerated: not until near the war's end did she become supervisor of the female nurses. Additionally, Summers writes that the contribution of the nurses to the relief of the wounded was at best marginal. The prevailing problems of military medicine were caused by army organizational practices, and the addition of a few nurses to the medical staff could be no more than symbolic. Nightingale’s place in the national pantheon, Summers asserts, is largely due to the propagandistic efforts of contemporary newspaper reporters.<br><br>By contrast, the editors of a new volume of Nightingale's letters view Nightingale as a person who significantly influenced not only her own age but also subsequent generations. They highlight her ongoing efforts to reform sanitary conditions after the war. For example, when she learned that peacetime living conditions in British barracks were so horrible that the death rate of enlisted men far exceeded that of neighboring civilian populations, she succeeded in persuading the government to establish a Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. She used sums raised through public contributions to found a nurses’ training hospital in London. Even in administrative matters, the editors assert, her practical intelligence was formidable: as recently as 1947 the British Army's medical services were still using the cost-accounting system she had devised in the 1860's.<br><br>I believe that the evidence of her letters supports continued respect for Nightingale's brilliance and creativity. When counseling a village schoolmaster to encourage children to use their faculties of observation, she sounds like a modern educator. Her insistence on classifying the problems of the needy in order to devise appropriate treatments is similar to the approach of modern social workers. In sum, although Nightingale may not have achieved all of her goals during the Crimean War, her breadth of vision and ability to realize ambitious projects have earned her an eminent place among the ranks of social pioneers.
With which of the following statements regarding the differing interpretations of Nightingale’s importance would the author most
(A) Summers misunderstood both the importance of Nightingale's achievements during the Crimean War and her subsequent influence on British policy.
(B) The editors of Nightingale’s letters made some valid points about her practical achievements, but they still exaggerated her influence on subsequent generations.
(C) Although Summers’ account of Nightingale’s role in the Crimean War may be accurate; she ignored evidence of Nightingale’s subsequent achievement that suggests that her reputation as an eminent social reformer is well deserved.
(D) The editors of Nightingale's letters mistakenly propagated the outdated idealization of Nightingale that only impedes attempts to arrive at a balanced assessment of her true role.
(E) The evidence of Nightingale's Letters supports Summers’ conclusions both about Nightingale’s activities and about her influence.
---------------------------------
#RC#P3-5 (Medium)#C#1500
Two recent publications offer different assessments of the career of the famous British nurse Florence Nightingale. A book by Anne Summers seeks to debunk the idealizations and present a reality at odds with Nightingale's heroic reputation. According to Summers, Nightingale's importance during the Crimean War has been exaggerated: not until near the war's end did she become supervisor of the female nurses. Additionally, Summers writes that the contribution of the nurses to the relief of the wounded was at best marginal. The prevailing problems of military medicine were caused by army organizational practices, and the addition of a few nurses to the medical staff could be no more than symbolic. Nightingale’s place in the national pantheon, Summers asserts, is largely due to the propagandistic efforts of contemporary newspaper reporters.<br><br>By contrast, the editors of a new volume of Nightingale's letters view Nightingale as a person who significantly influenced not only her own age but also subsequent generations. They highlight her ongoing efforts to reform sanitary conditions after the war. For example, when she learned that peacetime living conditions in British barracks were so horrible that the death rate of enlisted men far exceeded that of neighboring civilian populations, she succeeded in persuading the government to establish a Royal Commission on the Health of the Army. She used sums raised through public contributions to found a nurses’ training hospital in London. Even in administrative matters, the editors assert, her practical intelligence was formidable: as recently as 1947 the British Army's medical services were still using the cost-accounting system she had devised in the 1860's.<br><br>I believe that the evidence of her letters supports continued respect for Nightingale's brilliance and creativity. When counseling a village schoolmaster to encourage children to use their faculties of observation, she sounds like a modern educator. Her insistence on classifying the problems of the needy in order to devise appropriate treatments is similar to the approach of modern social workers. In sum, although Nightingale may not have achieved all of her goals during the Crimean War, her breadth of vision and ability to realize ambitious projects have earned her an eminent place among the ranks of social pioneers.
In the last paragraph, the author is primarily concerned with
(A) summarizing the arguments about Nightingale presented in the first two paragraphs
(B) refuting the view of Nightingale's career presented in the preceding paragraph
(C) analyzing the weaknesses of the evidence presented elsewhere in the passage
(D) citing evidence to support a view of Nightingale’s career
(E) correcting a factual error occurring in one of the works under review
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-1 (Medium)#A#1600
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) question the notion that customer loyalty programs are beneficial
(B) examine the reasons why many customers buy multiple brands of products
(C) propose some possible alternatives to customer loyalty programs
(D) demonstrate that most customers are not completely loyal to any one brand of product or service
(E) compare the benefits of customer loyalty programs with those of other types of purchase incentive programs
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-2 (Easy)#D#1700
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
The passage mentions each of the following as a potential reason for customers’ divided loyalty EXCEPT
(A) a particular brand may be the only one available
(B) a particular brand may be offered at a discount
(C) customers will often buy multiple brands out of a desire for variety
(D) customers will often buy an unfamiliar brand when it is new on the market
(E) customers will often buy certain brands for certain occasions
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-3 (Easy)#B#1800
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
According to the passage, advocates of customer loyalty programs claim which of the following about highly loyal customers?
(A) They often expect price discounts as a reward for their loyalty to a product.
(B) They can be served at lower expense to a company than can non-loyal customers.
(C) They tend to be light but predictable buyers of the product or service in question.
(D) They are to try out new brands or products that appear on the market.
(E) They are difficult to differentiate statistically from other types of repeat customers.
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-4 (Easy)#E#1900
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
The passage suggests that companies that invoke the “80/20" principle in support of customer loyalty programs which of the following
(A) A well-designed customer loyalty program can increase the number of a company's loyal customers by as much as 80 percent.
(B) About 20 percent of any given company's most profitable customers are likely to be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.
(C) It is unreasonable to expect more than 20 percent of customers to be 100 percent loyal to any particular brand of product.
(D) Even “loyal” customers cannot reasonably be expected to stick to one particular brand of product more than 80 percent of the time.
(E) A relatively small number of loyal customers is responsible for about 80 percent of a company's profits.
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-5 (Medium)#C#2000
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
The second paragraph functions primarily to
(A) propose solutions to certain problems inherent in customer loyalty programs
(B) emphasize certain risks inherent in customer loyalty programs
(C) address certain contentions put forth by advocates of customer loyalty programs
(D) defend certain specific aspects of customer loyalty programs against criticism
(E) reconcile competing viewpoints regarding the of customer loyalty programs
---------------------------------
#RC#P4-6 (Medium)#C#2100
Customer loyalty programs are attempts to bond customers to a company and its products and services by offering incentives— such as airline frequent flyer programs or special credit cards with valuable benefits—t0 loyal customers. In support of loyalty programs, companies often invoke the “80/20" principle, which states that about 80 percent of revenues typically comes from only about 20 percent of customers. However, this profitable 20 percent are not necessarily loyal buyers, especially in the sense of exclusive loyalty. Studies have demonstrated that only about 10 percent of buyers for many types of frequently purchased consumer goods are 100 percent loyal to a particular brand over a one-year period. Moreover, 100-percent-loyal buyers tend to be light buyers of the product or service. “Divided loyalty” better describes actual consumer behavior, since customers typically vary the brands they buy. The reasons for this behavior are fairly straightforward: people buy different brands for different occasions or for variety, or a brand may be the only one in stock or may offer better value because of a special deal. Most buyers who change brands are not lost forever; usually, they are heavy consumers who simply prefer to buy a number of brands. Such multiband loyalty means that one company's most profitable customers will probably be its competitors’ most profitable customers as well.<br><br>Still, advocates of loyalty programs contend that such programs are beneficial because the costs of serving highly loyal customers are lower, and because such loyal customers are less price sensitive than other customers. It is true that when there are start-up costs, such as credit checks, involved in serving a new customer, the costs exceed those of serving a repeat customer. However, it is not at all clear why the costs of serving a highly loyal customer should in principle be different from those of serving any other type of repeat customer. The key variables driving cost are size and type of order, special versus standard order, and so on, not high-loyalty versus divided-loyalty customers. As for price sensitivity, highly loyal customers may in fact come to expect a price discount as a reward for their loyalty.
The author of the passage suggests that which of the following is most likely to be true of a customer who is exclusively loyal to a particular brand of product?
(A) The customer probably began buying that brand of product only within the past year.
(B) The customer is probably among the most profitable customers for the company that manufactures that brand of product.
(C) The customer is probably not a heavy consumer of that particular type of product.
(D) The customer is probably a loyal customer when purchasing other types of products as well.
(E) The customer probably sampled numerous brands of that type of product before becoming loyal to a particular brand.
---------------------------------
#RC#P5-1 (Medium)#D#2200
Many managers are influenced by dangerous myths about pay that lead to counterproductive decisions about how their companies compensate employees. One such myth is that labor rates, the rate per hour paid to workers, are identical with labor costs, the money spent on labor in relation to the productivity of the labor force. This myth leads to the assumption that a company can simply lower its labor costs by cutting wages. But labor costs and labor rates are not in fact the same: one company could pay its workers considerably more than another and yet have lower labor costs if that company's productivity were higher due to the talent of its workforce, the efficiency of its work processes, or other factors. The confusion of costs with rates persists partly because labor rates are a convenient target for managers who want to make an impact on their company's budgets. Because labor rates are highly visible, managers can easily compare their company's rates with those of competitors. Furthermore, labor rates often appear to be a company's most malleable financial variable: cutting wages appears an easier way to control costs than such options as reconfiguring work processes or altering product design.<br><br>The myth that labor rates and labor costs are equivalent is supported by business journalists, who frequently confound the two. For example, <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>prominent business journals</strong></span> often remark on the “high" cost of German labor, citing as evidence the average amount paid to German workers. The myth is also perpetuated by the compensation consulting industry, which has its own incentive to keep such myths alive. First, although some of these consulting firms have recently broadened their practices beyond the area of compensation, their mainstay continues to be advising companies on changing their compensation practices. Suggesting that a company's performance can be improved in some other way than by altering its pay system may be empirically correct but contrary to the consultants’ interests. Furthermore, changes to the compensation system may appear to be simpler to implement than changes to other aspects of an organization, so managers are more likely to find such advice from consultants palatable. Finally, to the extent that changes in compensation create new problems, the consultants will continue to have work solving the problems that result from their advice.
The author of the passage mentions business journals (see highlighted text) primarily in order to
(A) demonstrate how a particular kind of evidence can be used to support two different conclusions
(B) cast doubt on a particular view about the average amount paid to German workers
(C) suggest that business journalists may have a vested interest in perpetuating a particular view
(D) identify one source of support for a view common among business managers
(E) indicate a way in which a particular myth could be dispelled
---------------------------------
#RC#P5-2 (Easy)#E#2300
Many managers are influenced by dangerous myths about pay that lead to counterproductive decisions about how their companies compensate employees. One such myth is that labor rates, the rate per hour paid to workers, are identical with labor costs, the money spent on labor in relation to the productivity of the labor force. This myth leads to the assumption that a company can simply lower its labor costs by cutting wages. But labor costs and labor rates are not in fact the same: one company could pay its workers considerably more than another and yet have lower labor costs if that company's productivity were higher due to the talent of its workforce, the efficiency of its work processes, or other factors. The confusion of costs with rates persists partly because labor rates are a convenient target for managers who want to make an impact on their company's budgets. Because labor rates are highly visible, managers can easily compare their company's rates with those of competitors. Furthermore, labor rates often appear to be a company's most malleable financial variable: cutting wages appears an easier way to control costs than such options as reconfiguring work processes or altering product design.<br><br>The myth that labor rates and labor costs are equivalent is supported by business journalists, who frequently confound the two. For example, prominent business journals often remark on the “high" cost of German labor, citing as evidence the average amount paid to German workers. The myth is also perpetuated by the compensation consulting industry, which has its own incentive to keep such myths alive. First, although some of these consulting firms have recently broadened their practices beyond the area of compensation, their mainstay continues to be advising companies on changing their compensation practices. Suggesting that a company's performance can be improved in some other way than by altering its pay system may be empirically correct but contrary to the consultants’ interests. Furthermore, changes to the compensation system may appear to be simpler to implement than changes to other aspects of an organization, so managers are more likely to find such advice from consultants palatable. Finally, to the extent that changes in compensation create new problems, the consultants will continue to have work solving the problems that result from their advice.
According to the passage, which of the following is true about changes to a company's compensation system?
(A) They are often implemented in conjunction with a company's efforts to reconfigure its work processes.
(B) They have been advocated by prominent business journals as the most direct way for a company to bring about changes in its labor costs.
(C) They are more likely to result in an increase in labor costs than they are to bring about competitive advantages for the company.
(D) They sometimes result in significant cost savings but are likely to create labor-relations problems for the company.
(E) They may seem to managers to be relatively easy to implement compared with other kinds of changes managers might consider.
---------------------------------
#RC#P5-3 (Easy)#D#2400
Many managers are influenced by dangerous myths about pay that lead to counterproductive decisions about how their companies compensate employees. One such myth is that labor rates, the rate per hour paid to workers, are identical with labor costs, the money spent on labor in relation to the productivity of the labor force. This myth leads to the assumption that a company can simply lower its labor costs by cutting wages. But labor costs and labor rates are not in fact the same: one company could pay its workers considerably more than another and yet have lower labor costs if that company's productivity were higher due to the talent of its workforce, the efficiency of its work processes, or other factors. The confusion of costs with rates persists partly because labor rates are a convenient target for managers who want to make an impact on their company's budgets. Because labor rates are highly visible, managers can easily compare their company's rates with those of competitors. Furthermore, labor rates often appear to be a company's most malleable financial variable: cutting wages appears an easier way to control costs than such options as reconfiguring work processes or altering product design.<br><br>The myth that labor rates and labor costs are equivalent is supported by business journalists, who frequently confound the two. For example, prominent business journals often remark on the “high" cost of German labor, citing as evidence the average amount paid to German workers. The myth is also perpetuated by the compensation consulting industry, which has its own incentive to keep such myths alive. First, although some of these consulting firms have recently broadened their practices beyond the area of compensation, their mainstay continues to be advising companies on changing their compensation practices. Suggesting that a company's performance can be improved in some other way than by altering its pay system may be empirically correct but contrary to the consultants’ interests. Furthermore, changes to the compensation system may appear to be simpler to implement than changes to other aspects of an organization, so managers are more likely to find such advice from consultants palatable. Finally, to the extent that changes in compensation create new problems, the consultants will continue to have work solving the problems that result from their advice.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) describe a common practice used by managers to control labor costs
(B) examine the relation between labor costs and other costs incurred by businesses
(C) explain why labor rates are a more significant factor than labor costs for most businesses
(D) identify a common misperception held by managers and point out some of the reasons for its persistence
(E) distinguish between a factor that companies can easily control and another that is more difficult to change
---------------------------------
#RC#P5-4 (Medium)#B#2500
Many managers are influenced by dangerous myths about pay that lead to counterproductive decisions about how their companies compensate employees. One such myth is that labor rates, the rate per hour paid to workers, are identical with labor costs, the money spent on labor in relation to the productivity of the labor force. This myth leads to the assumption that a company can simply lower its labor costs by cutting wages. But labor costs and labor rates are not in fact the same: one company could pay its workers considerably more than another and yet have lower labor costs if that company's productivity were higher due to the talent of its workforce, the efficiency of its work processes, or other factors. The confusion of costs with rates persists partly because labor rates are a convenient target for managers who want to make an impact on their company's budgets. Because labor rates are highly visible, managers can easily compare their company's rates with those of competitors. Furthermore, labor rates often appear to be a company's most malleable financial variable: cutting wages appears an easier way to control costs than such options as reconfiguring work processes or altering product design.<br><br>The myth that labor rates and labor costs are equivalent is supported by business journalists, who frequently confound the two. For example, prominent business journals often remark on the “high" cost of German labor, citing as evidence the average amount paid to German workers. The myth is also perpetuated by the compensation consulting industry, which has its own incentive to keep such myths alive. First, although some of these consulting firms have recently broadened their practices beyond the area of compensation, their mainstay continues to be advising companies on changing their compensation practices. Suggesting that a company's performance can be improved in some other way than by altering its pay system may be empirically correct but contrary to the consultants’ interests. Furthermore, changes to the compensation system may appear to be simpler to implement than changes to other aspects of an organization, so managers are more likely to find such advice from consultants palatable. Finally, to the extent that changes in compensation create new problems, the consultants will continue to have work solving the problems that result from their advice.
It can be inferred from the passage that the author would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements about compensation?
(A) A company's labor costs are not affected by the efficiency of its work processes.
(B) High labor rates are not necessarily inconsistent with the goals of companies that want to reduce costs.
(C) It is more difficult for managers to compare their companies’ labor rates with those of competitors than to compare labor costs.
(D) A company whose lab-or rates are high is unlikely to have lower labor costs than other companies.
(E) Managers often use information about competitors’ labor costs to calculate those companies’ labor rates.
---------------------------------
#RC#P5-5 (Medium)#A#2600
Many managers are influenced by dangerous myths about pay that lead to counterproductive decisions about how their companies compensate employees. One such <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>myth</strong></span> is that labor rates, the rate per hour paid to workers, are identical with labor costs, the money spent on labor in relation to the productivity of the labor force. This myth leads to the assumption that a company can simply lower its labor costs by cutting wages. But labor costs and labor rates are not in fact the same: one company could pay its workers considerably more than another and yet have lower labor costs if that company's productivity were higher due to the talent of its workforce, the efficiency of its work processes, or other factors. The confusion of costs with rates persists partly because labor rates are a convenient target for managers who want to make an impact on their company's budgets. Because labor rates are highly visible, managers can easily compare their company's rates with those of competitors. Furthermore, labor rates often appear to be a company's most malleable financial variable: cutting wages appears an easier way to control costs than such options as reconfiguring work processes or altering product design.<br><br>The myth that labor rates and labor costs are equivalent is supported by business journalists, who frequently confound the two. For example, prominent business journals often remark on the “high" cost of German labor, citing as evidence the average amount paid to German workers. The myth is also perpetuated by the compensation consulting industry, which has its own incentive to keep such myths alive. First, although some of these consulting firms have recently broadened their practices beyond the area of compensation, their mainstay continues to be advising companies on changing their compensation practices. Suggesting that a company's performance can be improved in some other way than by altering its pay system may be empirically correct but contrary to the consultants’ interests. Furthermore, changes to the compensation system may appear to be simpler to implement than changes to other aspects of an organization, so managers are more likely to find such advice from consultants palatable. Finally, to the extent that changes in compensation create new problems, the consultants will continue to have work solving the problems that result from their advice.
The passage suggests that the “myth" mentioned in the highlighted text persists partly because
(A) managers find it easier to compare their companies’ labor rates with those of competitors than to compare labor costs
(B) managers tend to assume that labor rates affect their companies’ budgets less than they actually do
(C) managers tend to believe that labor rates can have an impact on the efficiency of their companies’ work processes
(D) the average amount paid to workers differs significantly from one country to another
(E) many companies fail to rely on compensation consultants when making decisions about labor rates
---------------------------------
#RC#P6-1 (Hard)#D#2700
Why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans is poorly understood. However, theory and limited research suggest that the process through which such plans emerge may play a part. In particular, top management decision-sharing-consensus-oriented, team-based decision-making—may increase the likelihood that firms will adhere to their plans, because those involved in the decision-making may be more committed to the chosen course of action, thereby increasing the likelihood that organizations will subsequently adhere to their plans.<br><br><span style="background:yellow;"><strong>However, the relationship between top management decision sharing and adherence to plans may be affected by a strategic mission (its fundamental approach to increasing sales revenue and market share, and generating cash flow and short-term profits).</strong></span> At one end of the strategic mission continuum, “build" strategies are pursued when a firm desires to increase its market share and is to sacrifice short-term profits to do so. At the other end, “harvest" strategies are used when a firm is to sacrifice market share for short-term profitability and maximization. Research and theory suggest that top management decision-sharing may have a more positive relationship with adherence to plans among firms with harvest strategies than among firms with build strategies. In a study of strategic practices in several large firms, managers in harvest strategy scenarios were more able to adhere to their business plans. As one of the managers in the study explained it, this is partly because “typically all a manager has to do [when implementing a harvest strategy] is that which was done last year.” Additionally, managers under harvest strategies may have fewer strategic options than do those under build strategies; it may therefore be easier to reach agreement on a particular course of action through decision-sharing, which will in turn tend to promote adherence to plans. Conversely, in a “build" strategy scenario, individual leadership, rather than decision-sharing, may promote adherence to plans. Build strategies—which typically require leaders with strong personal visions for a future, rather than the negotiated compromise of the team-based decision—may be most closely adhered to when implemented in the context of a clear strategic vision of an individual leader, rather than through the practice of decision-sharing.
Which of the following best describes the function of the first sentence (see highlighted text) of the second paragraph of the passage?
(A) To answer a question posed in the first sentence of the passage about why firms adopt particular strategic missions
(B) To refute an argument made in the first paragraph about how top management decision-making affects whether firms will adhere to their strategic plans
(C) To provide evidence supporting a theory introduced in the first paragraph about what makes firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans
(D) To qualify an assertion made in the preceding sentence about how top management decision—making affects the likelihood that firms will adhere to their strategic plans
(E) To explain a distinction relied on in the second paragraph regarding two different kinds of strategic missions
---------------------------------
#RC#P6-2 (Easy)#B#2800
Why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans is poorly understood. However, theory and limited research suggest that the process through which such plans emerge may play a part. In particular, top management decision-sharing-consensus-oriented, team-based decision-making—may increase the likelihood that firms will adhere to their plans, because those involved in the decision-making may be more committed to the chosen course of action, thereby increasing the likelihood that organizations will subsequently adhere to their plans.<br><br>However, the relationship between top management decision sharing and adherence to plans may be affected by a strategic mission (its fundamental approach to increasing sales revenue and market share, and generating cash flow and short-term profits). At one end of the strategic mission continuum, “build" strategies are pursued when a firm desires to increase its market share and is to sacrifice short-term profits to do so. At the other end, “harvest" strategies are used when a firm is to sacrifice market share for short-term profitability and maximization. Research and theory suggest that top management decision-sharing may have a more positive relationship with adherence to plans among firms with harvest strategies than among firms with build strategies. In a study of strategic practices in several large firms, managers in harvest strategy scenarios were more able to adhere to their business plans. As one of the managers in the study explained it, this is partly because “typically all a manager has to do [when implementing a harvest strategy] is that which was done last year.” Additionally, managers under harvest strategies may have fewer strategic options than do those under build strategies; it may therefore be easier to reach agreement on a particular course of action through decision-sharing, which will in turn tend to promote adherence to plans. Conversely, in a “build" strategy scenario, individual leadership, rather than decision-sharing, may promote adherence to plans. Build strategies—which typically require leaders with strong personal visions for a future, rather than the negotiated compromise of the team-based decision—may be most closely adhered to when implemented in the context of a clear strategic vision of an individual leader, rather than through the practice of decision-sharing.
It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following firms would be the most to adhere to its strategic plans?
(A) One that is pursuing a build strategy and whose strategic plans were developed through the process of decision sharing
(B) One that is pursuing a harvest strategy and whose strategic plans were developed through the process of decision-sharing
(C) One that is pursuing a harvest strategy and whose strategic plans were developed by an individual leader with a strong personal vision for the future
(D) One that does not fluctuate between builds and harvest strategies
(E) One that has a long—established practice of top management decision-sharing
---------------------------------
#RC#P6-3 (Easy)#A#2900
Why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans is poorly understood. However, theory and limited research suggest that the process through which such plans emerge may play a part. In particular, top management decision-sharing-consensus-oriented, team-based decision-making—may increase the likelihood that firms will adhere to their plans, because those involved in the decision-making may be more committed to the chosen course of action, thereby increasing the likelihood that organizations will subsequently adhere to their plans.<br><br>However, the relationship between top management decision sharing and adherence to plans may be affected by a strategic mission (its fundamental approach to increasing sales revenue and market share, and generating cash flow and short-term profits). At one end of the strategic mission continuum, “build" strategies are pursued when a firm desires to increase its market share and is to sacrifice short-term profits to do so. At the other end, “harvest" strategies are used when a firm is to sacrifice market share for short-term profitability and maximization. Research and theory suggest that top management decision-sharing may have a more positive relationship with adherence to plans among firms with harvest strategies than among firms with build strategies. In a study of strategic practices in several large firms, managers in harvest strategy scenarios were more able to adhere to their business plans. As one of the managers in the study explained it, this is partly because <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>“typically all a manager has to do [when implementing a harvest strategy] is that which was done last year.”</strong></span> Additionally, managers under harvest strategies may have fewer strategic options than do those under build strategies; it may therefore be easier to reach agreement on a particular course of action through decision-sharing, which will in turn tend to promote adherence to plans. Conversely, in a “build" strategy scenario, individual leadership, rather than decision-sharing, may promote adherence to plans. Build strategies—which typically require leaders with strong personal visions for a future, rather than the negotiated compromise of the team-based decision—may be most closely adhered to when implemented in the context of a clear strategic vision of an individual leader, rather than through the practice of decision-sharing.
The author includes the quotation in the highlighted text of the passage most probably in order to
(A) lend support to the claim that firms utilizing harvest strategies may be more to adhere to their strategic plans
(B) suggest a reason that many managers of large firms prefer harvest strategies to build strategies
(C) provide an example of a firm that adhered to its strategic plan because of the degree of its managers’ commitment
(D) demonstrate that managers implementing harvest strategies generally have better strategic options than do managers implementing build strategies
(E) give an example of a large firm that successfully implemented a harvest strategy
---------------------------------
#RC#P6-4 (Easy)#C#3000
Why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans is poorly understood. However, theory and limited research suggest that the process through which such plans emerge may play a part. In particular, top management decision-sharing-consensus-oriented, team-based decision-making—may increase the likelihood that firms will adhere to their plans, because those involved in the decision-making may be more committed to the chosen course of action, thereby increasing the likelihood that organizations will subsequently adhere to their plans.<br><br>However, the relationship between top management decision sharing and adherence to plans may be affected by a strategic mission (its fundamental approach to increasing sales revenue and market share, and generating cash flow and short-term profits). At one end of the strategic mission continuum, “build" strategies are pursued when a firm desires to increase its market share and is to sacrifice short-term profits to do so. At the other end, “harvest" strategies are used when a firm is to sacrifice market share for short-term profitability and maximization. Research and theory suggest that top management decision-sharing may have a more positive relationship with adherence to plans among firms with harvest strategies than among firms with build strategies. In a study of strategic practices in several large firms, managers in harvest strategy scenarios were more able to adhere to their business plans. As one of the managers in the study explained it, this is partly because “typically all a manager has to do [when implementing a harvest strategy] is that which was done last year.” Additionally, managers under harvest strategies may have fewer strategic options than do those under build strategies; it may therefore be easier to reach agreement on a particular course of action through decision-sharing, which will in turn tend to promote adherence to plans. Conversely, in a “build" strategy scenario, individual leadership, rather than decision-sharing, may promote adherence to plans. Build strategies—which typically require leaders with strong personal visions for a future, rather than the negotiated compromise of the team-based decision—may be most closely adhered to when implemented in the context of a clear strategic vision of an individual leader, rather than through the practice of decision-sharing.
According to the theory and research discussed in the first paragraph of the passage, which of the following may be true of firms that use teams to develop their strategic plans?
(A) They are more to pursue build strategies rather than harvest strategies.
(B) They are less likely to have a well-defined strategic mission than are firms with individual leaders.
(C) They are less to deviate from their strategic plans because team members may be more committed to the plans.
(D) They generally follow a similar pattern in alternating efforts to increase revenues and market share with efforts to generate short-term profits.
(E) They are less likely to adhere to their strategic plans because they tend to lack a clear strategic vision.
---------------------------------
#RC#P6-5 (Hard)#E#3100
Why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans is poorly understood. However, theory and limited research suggest that the process through which such plans emerge may play a part. In particular, top management decision-sharing-consensus-oriented, team-based decision-making—may increase the likelihood that firms will adhere to their plans, because those involved in the decision-making may be more committed to the chosen course of action, thereby increasing the likelihood that organizations will subsequently adhere to their plans.<br><br>However, the relationship between top management decision sharing and adherence to plans may be affected by a strategic mission (its fundamental approach to increasing sales revenue and market share, and generating cash flow and short-term profits). At one end of the strategic mission continuum, “build" strategies are pursued when a firm desires to increase its market share and is to sacrifice short-term profits to do so. At the other end, “harvest" strategies are used when a firm is to sacrifice market share for short-term profitability and maximization. Research and theory suggest that top management decision-sharing may have a more positive relationship with adherence to plans among firms with harvest strategies than among firms with build strategies. In a study of strategic practices in several large firms, managers in harvest strategy scenarios were more able to adhere to their business plans. As one of the managers in the study explained it, this is partly because “typically all a manager has to do [when implementing a harvest strategy] is that which was done last year.” Additionally, managers under harvest strategies may have fewer strategic options than do those under build strategies; it may therefore be easier to reach agreement on a particular course of action through decision-sharing, which will in turn tend to promote adherence to plans. Conversely, in a “build" strategy scenario, individual leadership, rather than decision-sharing, may promote adherence to plans. Build strategies—which typically require leaders with strong personal visions for a future, rather than the negotiated compromise of the team-based decision—may be most closely adhered to when implemented in the context of a clear strategic vision of an individual leader, rather than through the practice of decision-sharing.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) identify some of the obstacles that make it difficult for firms to adhere to their strategic business plans
(B) compare two different theories concerning why firms adhere to or deviate from their strategic plans
(C) evaluate the utility of top management decision-sharing as a method of implementing the strategic mission of a business
(D) discuss the respective advantages and disadvantages of build and harvest strategies among several large firms
(E) examine some of the factors that may affect whether or not firms adhere to their strategic plans
---------------------------------
#RC#P7-1 (Medium)#A#3200
Years before the advent of plate tectonics—the widely accepted theory, developed in the mid-1960s, that holds that the major features of Earth's surface are created by the horizontal motions of Earth's outer shell, or lithosphere—a similar theory was rejected by the geological community. In 1912, Alfred Wegener proposed, in a widely debated theory that came to be called continental drift, that Earth's continents were mobile. To most geologists today, Wegener’s The Origin of Continents and Oceans appears an impressive and prescient document, containing several of the essential presumptions underlying plate tectonics theory: the horizontal mobility of pieces of Earth's crust; the essential difference between oceanic and continental crust; and a causal connection between horizontal displacements and the formation of mountain chains. Yet despite the considerable overlap between Wegener’s concepts and the later widely embraced plate tectonics theory, and despite the fact that continental drift theory presented a possible solution to the problem of the origin of mountains at a time when existing explanations were seriously in doubt, in its day Wegener’s theory was rejected by the vast majority of geologists.<br><br>Most geologists and many historians today believe that Wegener's theory was rejected because of its lack of an adequate mechanical basis. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, argues that continental drift theory was rejected because it did not explain how continents could move through an apparently oceanic floor. However, as Anthony Hallam has pointed out, many scientific phenomena, such as the ice ages, have been accepted before they could be fully explained. The most likely cause for the rejection of continental drift—a cause that has been largely ignored because we consider Wegener's theory to have been validated by the theory of plate tectonics—is the nature of the evidence that was put forward to support it. Most of Wegener's evidence consisted of homologies—similarities of patterns and forms based on direct observations of rocks in the field, supported by the use of hammers, hand lenses, and field notebooks. In contrast, the data supporting plate tectonics were impressively geophysical—instrumental| determinations of the physical properties of Earth garnered through the use of seismographs, magnetometers, and computers.
It can be inferred from the passage that geologists today would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements about Wegener's The Origin of Continents and Oceans?
(A) It was a worthy scientific effort that was ahead of its time.
(B) It was based on evidence that was later disproved.
(C) It was directly responsible for the acceptance of the theory of plate tectonics.
(D) It has been disproved by continental drift theory.
(E) It misrepresented how horizontal displacements cause the formation of mountain chains.
---------------------------------
#RC#P7-2 (Medium)#E#3300
Years before the advent of plate tectonics—the widely accepted theory, developed in the mid-1960s, that holds that the major features of Earth's surface are created by the horizontal motions of Earth's outer shell, or lithosphere—a similar theory was rejected by the geological community. In 1912, Alfred Wegener proposed, in a widely debated theory that came to be called continental drift, that Earth's continents were mobile. To most geologists today, Wegener’s The Origin of Continents and Oceans appears an impressive and prescient document, containing several of the essential presumptions underlying plate tectonics theory: the horizontal mobility of pieces of Earth's crust; the essential difference between oceanic and continental crust; and a causal connection between horizontal displacements and the formation of mountain chains. Yet despite the considerable overlap between Wegener’s concepts and the later widely embraced plate tectonics theory, and despite the fact that continental drift theory presented a possible solution to the problem of the origin of mountains at a time when existing explanations were seriously in doubt, in its day Wegener’s theory was rejected by the vast majority of geologists.<br><br>Most geologists and many historians today believe that Wegener's theory was rejected because of its lack of an adequate mechanical basis. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, argues that continental drift theory was rejected because it did not explain how continents could move through an apparently oceanic floor. However, as Anthony Hallam has pointed out, many scientific phenomena, such as the ice ages, have been accepted before they could be fully explained. The most likely cause for the rejection of continental drift—a cause that has been largely ignored because we consider Wegener's theory to have been validated by the theory of plate tectonics—is the nature of the evidence that was put forward to support it. Most of Wegener's evidence consisted of homologies—similarities of patterns and forms based on direct observations of rocks in the field, supported by the use of hammers, hand lenses, and field notebooks. In contrast, the data supporting plate tectonics were impressively geophysical—instrumental| determinations of the physical properties of Earth garnered through the use of seismographs, magnetometers, and computers.
The author of the passage suggests that the most likely explanation for the geological community's response to continental drift theory in its day was that the theory
(A) was in conflict with certain aspects of plate tectonics theory
(B) failed to account for how mountains were formed
(C) did not adequately explain how continents moved through the ocean floor
(D) was contradicted by the geophysical data of the time
(E) was based on a kind of evidence that was considered insufficiently convincing
---------------------------------
#RC#P7-3 (Hard)#D#3400
Years before the advent of plate tectonics—the widely accepted theory, developed in the mid-1960s, that holds that the major features of Earth's surface are created by the horizontal motions of Earth's outer shell, or lithosphere—a similar theory was rejected by the geological community. In 1912, Alfred Wegener proposed, in a widely debated theory that came to be called continental drift, that Earth's continents were mobile. To most geologists today, Wegener’s The Origin of Continents and Oceans appears an impressive and prescient document, containing several of the essential presumptions underlying plate tectonics theory: the horizontal mobility of pieces of Earth's crust; the essential difference between oceanic and continental crust; and a causal connection between horizontal displacements and the formation of mountain chains. Yet despite the <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>considerable overlap</strong></span> between Wegener’s concepts and the later widely embraced plate tectonics theory, and despite the fact that continental drift theory presented a possible solution to the problem of the origin of mountains at a time when existing explanations were seriously in doubt, in its day Wegener’s theory was rejected by the vast majority of geologists.<br><br>Most geologists and many historians today believe that Wegener's theory was rejected because of its lack of an adequate mechanical basis. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, argues that continental drift theory was rejected because it did not explain how continents could move through an apparently oceanic floor. However, as Anthony Hallam has pointed out, many scientific phenomena, such as the ice ages, have been accepted before they could be fully explained. The most likely cause for the rejection of continental drift—a cause that has been largely ignored because we consider Wegener's theory to have been validated by the theory of plate tectonics—is the nature of the evidence that was put forward to support it. Most of Wegener's evidence consisted of homologies—similarities of patterns and forms based on direct observations of rocks in the field, supported by the use of hammers, hand lenses, and field notebooks. In contrast, the data supporting plate tectonics were impressively geophysical—instrumental| determinations of the physical properties of Earth garnered through the use of seismographs, magnetometers, and computers.
The author of the passage refers to the “considerable overlap” (see highlighted text) between continental drift theory and plate tectonics theory most probably in order to
(A) suggest that plate tectonics theory is derived from Wegener's work
(B) introduce a discussion comparing the elements of the two theories
(C) examine the question of whether continental drift theory was innovative in its time
(D) provide a reason why it might seem surprising that continental drift theory was not more widely embraced by geologists
(E) cite an explanation that has been frequently offered for Wegener's high standing among geologists today
---------------------------------
#RC#P7-4 (Hard)#C#3500
Years before the advent of plate tectonics—the widely accepted theory, developed in the mid-1960s, that holds that the major features of Earth's surface are created by the horizontal motions of Earth's outer shell, or lithosphere—a similar theory was rejected by the geological community. In 1912, Alfred Wegener proposed, in a widely debated theory that came to be called continental drift, that Earth's continents were mobile. To most geologists today, Wegener’s The Origin of Continents and Oceans appears an impressive and prescient document, containing several of the essential presumptions underlying plate tectonics theory: the horizontal mobility of pieces of Earth's crust; the essential difference between oceanic and continental crust; and a causal connection between horizontal displacements and the formation of mountain chains. Yet despite the considerable overlap between Wegener’s concepts and the later widely embraced plate tectonics theory, and despite the fact that continental drift theory presented a possible solution to the problem of the origin of mountains at a time when existing explanations were seriously in doubt, in its day Wegener’s theory was rejected by the vast majority of geologists.<br><br>Most geologists and many historians today believe that Wegener's theory was rejected because of its lack of an adequate mechanical basis. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, argues that continental drift theory was rejected because it did not explain how continents could move through an apparently oceanic floor. However, as <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Anthony Hallam</strong></span> has pointed out, many scientific phenomena, such as the ice ages, have been accepted before they could be fully explained. The most likely cause for the rejection of continental drift—a cause that has been largely ignored because we consider Wegener's theory to have been validated by the theory of plate tectonics—is the nature of the evidence that was put forward to support it. Most of Wegener's evidence consisted of homologies—similarities of patterns and forms based on direct observations of rocks in the field, supported by the use of hammers, hand lenses, and field notebooks. In contrast, the data supporting plate tectonics were impressively geophysical—instrumental| determinations of the physical properties of Earth garnered through the use of seismographs, magnetometers, and computers.
The author cites Hallam (see highlighted text) on the ice ages primarily in order to
(A) provide an example of a geologic phenomenon whose precise causes are not understood by geologists today
(B) criticize the geological community for an apparent lack of consistency in its responses to new theories
(C) offer evidence held to undermine a common view of why Wegener's theory was not accepted in its day
(D) give an example of a modern scientist who believes that Wegener’s theory was rejected because it failed to adequately explain the mechanical basis of continental drift
(E) support Gould's rationale for why Wegener's theory was rejected by most geologists in the early twentieth century
---------------------------------
#RC#P7-5 (Medium)#B#3600
Years before the advent of plate tectonics—the widely accepted theory, developed in the mid-1960s, that holds that the major features of Earth's surface are created by the horizontal motions of Earth's outer shell, or lithosphere—a similar theory was rejected by the geological community. In 1912, Alfred Wegener proposed, in a widely debated theory that came to be called continental drift, that Earth's continents were mobile. To most geologists today, Wegener’s The Origin of Continents and Oceans appears an impressive and prescient document, containing several of the <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>essential presumptions</strong></span> underlying plate tectonics theory: the horizontal mobility of pieces of Earth's crust; the essential difference between oceanic and continental crust; and a causal connection between horizontal displacements and the formation of mountain chains. Yet despite the considerable overlap between Wegener’s concepts and the later widely embraced plate tectonics theory, and despite the fact that continental drift theory presented a possible solution to the problem of the origin of mountains at a time when existing explanations were seriously in doubt, in its day Wegener’s theory was rejected by the vast majority of geologists.<br><br>Most geologists and many historians today believe that Wegener's theory was rejected because of its lack of an adequate mechanical basis. Stephen Jay Gould, for example, argues that continental drift theory was rejected because it did not explain how continents could move through an apparently oceanic floor. However, as Anthony Hallam has pointed out, many scientific phenomena, such as the ice ages, have been accepted before they could be fully explained. The most likely cause for the rejection of continental drift—a cause that has been largely ignored because we consider Wegener's theory to have been validated by the theory of plate tectonics—is the nature of the evidence that was put forward to support it. Most of Wegener's evidence consisted of homologies—similarities of patterns and forms based on direct observations of rocks in the field, supported by the use of hammers, hand lenses, and field notebooks. In contrast, the data supporting plate tectonics were impressively geophysical—instrumental| determinations of the physical properties of Earth garnered through the use of seismographs, magnetometers, and computers.
The author of the passage discusses the “essential presumptions” (see highlighted text) of The Origin of Continents and Oceans most in order to
(A) indicate features of Wegener's theory that caused it to be doubted in its day
(B) show why Wegener's theory is now regarded as prescient
(C) indicate differences between plate tectonics and the theory of continental drift
(D) cite features of the theory of continental drift for which no evidence was available in Wegener’s day
(E) point out aspects of Wegener's theory that were accepted well before the advent of plate tectonics
---------------------------------
#RC#P8-1 (Medium)#E#3700
Over the last 150 years, large stretches of salmon habitat have been eliminated by human activity: mining, livestock grazing, timber harvesting, and agriculture as well as recreational and urban development. The numerical effect is obvious: there are fewer salmon in degraded regions than in pristine ones; however, habitat loss also has the potential to reduce genetic diversity. This is most evident in cases where it results in the extinction of entire salmon populations. Indeed, most analysts believe that some kind of environmental degradation underlies the demise of many extinct salmon populations. Although some rivers have been recolonized, the unique genes of the original populations have been lost.<br><br>Large-scale disturbances in one locale also have the potential to alter the genetic structure of populations in neighboring areas, even if those areas have pristine habitats. Why? Although the homing instinct of salmon to their natal stream is strong, a fraction of the fish returning from the sea (rarely more than 15 percent) stray and spawn in nearby streams. Low levels of straying are crucial, since the process provides a source of novel genes and a mechanism by which a location can be repopulates should the fish there disappear. Yet high rates of straying can be problematic because misdirected fish may interbreed with the existing stock to such a degree that any local adaptations that are present become diluted. Straying rates remain relatively low when environmental conditions are stable, but can increase dramatically when streams suffer severe disturbance. The 1980 volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Helens, for example, sent mud and debris into several tributaries of the Columbia River. For the next couple of years, steelhead trout (a species included among the salmon) returning from the sea to spawn were forced to find alternative streams. As a consequence, their rates of straying, initially 16 percent, rose to more than 40 percent overall.<br><br>Although no one has quantified changes in the rate of straying as a result of the disturbances caused by humans, there is no reason to suspect that the effect would be qualitatively different than what was seen in the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption. Such a dramatic increase in straying from damaged areas to more pristine streams results in substantial gene flow, which can in turn lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) argue against a conventional explanation for the extinction of certain salmon populations and suggest an alternative
(B) correct a common misunderstanding about the behavior of salmon in response to environmental degradation caused by human activity
(C) compare the effects of human activity on salmon populations with the effects of natural disturbances on salmon populations
(D) differentiate the particular effects of various human activities on salmon habitats
(E) describe how environmental degradation can cause changes in salmon populations that extend beyond a numerical reduction
---------------------------------
#RC#P8-2 (Hard)#D#3800
Over the last 150 years, large stretches of salmon habitat have been eliminated by human activity: mining, livestock grazing, timber harvesting, and agriculture as well as recreational and urban development. The numerical effect is obvious: there are fewer salmon in degraded regions than in pristine ones; however, habitat loss also has the potential to reduce genetic diversity. This is most evident in cases where it results in the extinction of entire salmon populations. Indeed, most analysts believe that some kind of environmental degradation underlies the demise of many extinct salmon populations. Although some rivers have been recolonized, the unique genes of the original populations have been lost.<br><br>Large-scale disturbances in one locale also have the potential to alter the genetic structure of populations in neighboring areas, even if those areas have pristine habitats. Why? Although the homing instinct of salmon to their natal stream is strong, a fraction of the fish returning from the sea (rarely more than 15 percent) stray and spawn in nearby streams. Low levels of straying are crucial, since the process provides a source of novel genes and a mechanism by which a location can be repopulates should the fish there disappear. Yet high rates of straying can be problematic because misdirected fish may interbreed with the existing stock to such a degree that any local adaptations that are present become diluted. Straying rates remain relatively low when environmental conditions are stable, but can increase dramatically when streams suffer severe disturbance. The 1980 volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Helens, for example, sent mud and debris into several tributaries of the Columbia River. For the next couple of years, steelhead trout (a species included among the salmon) returning from the sea to spawn were forced to find alternative streams. As a consequence, their rates of straying, initially 16 percent, rose to more than 40 percent overall.<br><br>Although no one has quantified changes in the rate of straying as a result of the disturbances caused by humans, there is no reason to suspect that the effect would be qualitatively different than what was seen in the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption. Such a dramatic increase in straying from damaged areas to more pristine streams results in substantial gene flow, which can in turn lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations.
It can be inferred from the passage that the occasional failure of some salmon to return to their natal streams in order to spawn provides a mechanism by which
(A) pristine streams that are near polluted streams become polluted themselves
(B) the particular adaptations of a polluted streams salmon population can be preserved without dilution
(C) the number of salmon in pristine habitats decreases relative to the number in polluted streams
(D) an environmentally degraded stream could be recolonized by new salmon populations should the stream recover
(E) the extinction of the salmon populations that spawn in polluted streams is accelerated
---------------------------------
#RC#P8-3 (Medium)#B#3900
Over the last 150 years, large stretches of salmon habitat have been eliminated by human activity: mining, livestock grazing, timber harvesting, and agriculture as well as recreational and urban development. The numerical effect is obvious: there are fewer salmon in degraded regions than in pristine ones; however, habitat loss also has the potential to reduce genetic diversity. This is most evident in cases where it results in the extinction of entire salmon populations. Indeed, most analysts believe that some kind of environmental degradation underlies the demise of many extinct salmon populations. Although some rivers have been recolonized, the unique genes of the original populations have been lost.<br><br>Large-scale disturbances in one locale also have the potential to alter the genetic structure of populations in neighboring areas, even if those areas have pristine habitats. Why? Although the homing instinct of salmon to their natal stream is strong, a fraction of the fish returning from the sea (rarely more than 15 percent) stray and spawn in nearby streams. Low levels of straying are crucial, since the process provides a source of novel genes and a mechanism by which a location can be repopulates should the fish there disappear. Yet high rates of straying can be problematic because misdirected fish may interbreed with the existing stock to such a degree that any local adaptations that are present become diluted. Straying rates remain relatively low when environmental conditions are stable, but can increase dramatically when streams suffer severe disturbance. The 1980 volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Helens, for example, sent mud and debris into several tributaries of the Columbia River. For the next couple of years, steelhead trout (a species included among the salmon) returning from the sea to spawn were forced to find alternative streams. As a consequence, their rates of straying, initially 16 percent, rose to more than 40 percent overall.<br><br>Although no one has quantified changes in the rate of straying as a result of the disturbances caused by humans, there is no reason to suspect that the effect would be qualitatively different than what was seen in the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption. Such a dramatic increase in straying from damaged areas to more pristine streams results in substantial gene flow, which can in turn lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations.
According to the passage, human activity has had which of the following effects on salmon populations?
(A) An increase in the size of salmon populations in some previously polluted rivers
(B) A in the number of salmon in some rivers
(C) A decrease in the number of straying salmon in some rivers
(D) A decrease in the gene flow between salmon populations that spawn in polluted streams and populations that spawn in pristine streams
(E) A decline in the vulnerability of some salmon populations to the effects of naturally occurring habitat destruction
---------------------------------
#RC#P8-4 (Hard)#C#4000
Over the last 150 years, large stretches of salmon habitat have been eliminated by human activity: mining, livestock grazing, timber harvesting, and agriculture as well as recreational and urban development. The numerical effect is obvious: there are fewer salmon in degraded regions than in pristine ones; however, habitat loss also has the potential to reduce genetic diversity. This is most evident in cases where it results in the extinction of entire salmon populations. Indeed, most analysts believe that some kind of environmental degradation underlies the demise of many extinct salmon populations. Although some rivers have been recolonized, the unique genes of the original populations have been lost.<br><br>Large-scale disturbances in one locale also have the potential to alter the genetic structure of populations in neighboring areas, even if those areas have pristine habitats. Why? Although the homing instinct of salmon to their natal stream is strong, a fraction of the fish returning from the sea (rarely more than 15 percent) stray and spawn in nearby streams. Low levels of straying are crucial, since the process provides a source of novel genes and a mechanism by which a location can be repopulates should the fish there disappear. Yet high rates of straying can be problematic because misdirected fish may interbreed with the existing stock to such a degree that any local adaptations that are present become diluted. Straying rates remain relatively low when environmental conditions are stable, but can increase dramatically when streams suffer severe disturbance. The 1980 volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Helens, for example, sent mud and debris into several tributaries of the Columbia River. For the next couple of years, steelhead trout (a species included among the salmon) returning from the sea to spawn were forced to find alternative streams. As a consequence, their rates of straying, initially 16 percent, rose to more than 40 percent overall.<br><br>Although no one has quantified changes in the rate of straying as a result of the disturbances caused by humans, there is no reason to suspect that the effect would be qualitatively different than what was seen in the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption. Such a dramatic increase in straying from damaged areas to more pristine streams results in substantial gene flow, which can in turn <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations</strong></span>.
The author's argument that increased straying can “lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations” (see highlighted text) is based on which of the following assumptions?
(A) A disturbance of salmonid spawning streams caused by human activity could increase the straying rate of affected salmonid populations as much as the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption did.
(B) In the streams in which the straying salmonid spawn, these straying salmonid would amount to no more than 40 percent of the total spawning population.
(C) Salmonid in some streams benefit from particular local adaptations.
(D) Non-environmental factors have no effect on salmonid straying rates.
(E) At least some of the streams in which straying salmonid would spawn are pristine, affected by neither natural nor artificial disturbances.
---------------------------------
#RC#P8-5 (Hard)#E#4100
Over the last 150 years, large stretches of salmon habitat have been eliminated by human activity: mining, livestock grazing, timber harvesting, and agriculture as well as recreational and urban development. The numerical effect is obvious: there are fewer salmon in degraded regions than in pristine ones; however, habitat loss also has the potential to reduce genetic diversity. This is most evident in cases where it results in the extinction of entire salmon populations. Indeed, most analysts believe that some kind of environmental degradation underlies the demise of many extinct salmon populations. Although some rivers have been recolonized, the unique genes of the original populations have been lost.<br><br>Large-scale disturbances in one locale also have the potential to alter the genetic structure of populations in neighboring areas, even if those areas have pristine habitats. Why? Although the homing instinct of salmon to their natal stream is strong, a fraction of the fish returning from the sea (rarely more than 15 percent) stray and spawn in nearby streams. Low levels of straying are crucial, since the process provides a source of novel genes and a mechanism by which a location can be repopulates should the fish there disappear. Yet high rates of straying can be problematic because misdirected fish may interbreed with the existing stock to such a degree that any local adaptations that are present become diluted. Straying rates remain relatively low when environmental conditions are stable, but can increase dramatically when streams suffer severe disturbance. The 1980 volcanic eruption of Mount Saint Helens, for example, sent mud and debris into several tributaries of the Columbia River. For the next couple of years, steelhead trout (a species included among the salmon) returning from the sea to spawn were forced to find alternative streams. As a consequence, their rates of straying, initially 16 percent, rose to more than 40 percent overall.<br><br>Although no one has quantified changes in the rate of straying as a result of the disturbances caused by humans, there is no reason to suspect that the effect would be qualitatively different than what was seen in the aftermath of the Mount Saint Helens eruption. Such a dramatic increase in straying from damaged areas to more pristine streams results in substantial gene flow, which can in turn lower the overall fitness of subsequent generations.
Which of the following does the author mention as support for the view that environmental disturbances caused by human activity could increase straying rates?
(A) The existence of salmon populations in rivers where the elimination of salmon habitat by human activity had previously made the fish extinct
(B) The results of studies measuring the impact on straying rates of habitat loss caused by human activity
(C) The potential for disturbances in one environment to cause the introduction of novel genes into salmon populations in neighboring areas
(D) The weaknesses in the view that the extinction of entire salmon populations is the only mechanism by which human destruction of salmon habitat reduces genetic diversity in salmon
(E) The absence of any reason for believing that disturbances brought about by human activity would differ in their effects from comparable disturbances brought about by natural causes
---------------------------------
#RC#P9-1 (Easy)#C#4200
The sloth bear, an insect-eating animal native to Nepal, exhibits only one behavior that is truly distinct from that of other bear species: the females carry their cubs (at least part-time) until the cubs are about nine months old, even though the cubs can walk on their own at six months. Cub-carrying also occurs among some other myrmecophagous (ant-eating) mammals; therefore, one explanation is that cub-carrying is necessitated by myrmecophagy, since myrmecophagy entails a low metabolic rate and high energy expenditure in walking between food patches. However, although polar bears’ locomotion is similarly inefficient, polar bear cubs walk along with their mother. Furthermore, the daily movements of sloth bears and American black bears—which are similar in size to sloth bears and have similar-sized home ranges—reveal similar travel rates and distances, suggesting that if black bear cubs are able to keep up with their mother, so too should sloth bear cubs.<br><br>An alternative explanation is defense from predation. Black bear cubs use trees for defense, whereas brown bears and polar bears, which regularly inhabit treeless environments, rely on aggression to protect their cubs. Like brown bears and polar bears (and unlike other myrmecophagous mammals, which are noted for their passivity), sloth bears are easily provoked to aggression. Sloth bears also have relatively large canine teeth, which appear to be more functional for fighting than for foraging. Like brown bears and polar bears, sloth bears may have evolved in an environment with few trees. They are especially attracted to food rich grasslands; although few types of grassland persist today on the Indian subcontinent, this type of habitat was once widespread there. Grasslands support high densities of tigers, which fight and sometimes kill sloth bears; sloth bears also coexist with and have been killed by tree-climbing leopards, and are often confronted and chased by <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>rhinoceroses and elephants</strong></span>, which can topple trees. Collectively these factors probably selected against tree climbing as a defensive strategy for sloth bear cubs. Because sloth bears are smaller than brown and polar bears and are under greater threat from dangerous animals, they may have adopted the extra precaution of carrying their cubs. Although cub carrying may also be adaptive for myrmecophagous foraging, the behavior of sloth bear cubs, which on their mother's back at the first sign of danger, suggests that predation was a key stimulus.
The author mentions rhinoceroses and elephants (see highlighted text) primarily in order to
(A) explain why sloth bears are not successful foragers in grassland habitats
(B) identify the predators that have had the most influence on the behavior of sloth bears
(C) suggest a possible reason that sloth bear cubs do not use tree-climbing as a defense
(D) provide examples of predators that were once widespread across the Indian subcontinent
(E) defend the assertion that sloth bears are under greater threat from dangerous animals than are other bear species
---------------------------------
#RC#P9-2 (Easy)#D#4300
The sloth bear, an insect-eating animal native to Nepal, exhibits only one behavior that is truly distinct from that of other bear species: the females carry their cubs (at least part-time) until the cubs are about nine months old, even though the cubs can walk on their own at six months. Cub-carrying also occurs among some other myrmecophagous (ant-eating) mammals; therefore, one explanation is that cub-carrying is necessitated by myrmecophagy, since myrmecophagy entails a low metabolic rate and high energy expenditure in walking between food patches. However, although polar bears’ locomotion is similarly inefficient, polar bear cubs walk along with their mother. <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Furthermore, the daily movements of sloth bears and American black bears—which are similar in size to sloth bears and have similar-sized home ranges—reveal similar travel rates and distances, suggesting that if black bear cubs are able to keep up with their mother, so too should sloth bear cubs.</strong></span><br><br>An alternative explanation is defense from predation. Black bear cubs use trees for defense, whereas brown bears and polar bears, which regularly inhabit treeless environments, rely on aggression to protect their cubs. Like brown bears and polar bears (and unlike other myrmecophagous mammals, which are noted for their passivity), sloth bears are easily provoked to aggression. Sloth bears also have relatively large canine teeth, which appear to be more functional for fighting than for foraging. Like brown bears and polar bears, sloth bears may have evolved in an environment with few trees. They are especially attracted to food rich grasslands; although few types of grassland persist today on the Indian subcontinent, this type of habitat was once widespread there. Grasslands support high densities of tigers, which fight and sometimes kill sloth bears; sloth bears also coexist with and have been killed by tree-climbing leopards, and are often confronted and chased by rhinoceroses and elephants, which can topple trees. Collectively these factors probably selected against tree climbing as a defensive strategy for sloth bear cubs. Because sloth bears are smaller than brown and polar bears and are under greater threat from dangerous animals, they may have adopted the extra precaution of carrying their cubs. Although cub carrying may also be adaptive for myrmecophagous foraging, the behavior of sloth bear cubs, which on their mother's back at the first sign of danger, suggests that predation was a key stimulus.
Which of the following, if true, would most weaken the author's argument in the highlighted text?
(A) Cub-carrying behavior has been observed in many non-myrmecophagous mammals.
(B) Many of the largest myrmecophagous mammals do not typically exhibit cub-carrying behavior.
(C) Some sloth bears have home ranges that are smaller in size than the average home ranges of black bears.
(D) The locomotion of black bears is significantly more efficient than the locomotion of sloth bears.
(E) The habitat of black bears consists of terrain that is significantly more varied than that of the habitat of sloth bears.
---------------------------------
#RC#P9-3 (Easy)#A#4400
The sloth bear, an insect-eating animal native to Nepal, exhibits only one behavior that is truly distinct from that of other bear species: the females carry their cubs (at least part-time) until the cubs are about nine months old, even though the cubs can walk on their own at six months. Cub-carrying also occurs among some other myrmecophagous (ant-eating) mammals; therefore, one explanation is that cub-carrying is necessitated by myrmecophagy, since myrmecophagy entails a low metabolic rate and high energy expenditure in walking between food patches. However, although polar bears’ locomotion is similarly inefficient, polar bear cubs walk along with their mother. Furthermore, the daily movements of sloth bears and American black bears—which are similar in size to sloth bears and have similar-sized home ranges—reveal similar travel rates and distances, suggesting that if black bear cubs are able to keep up with their mother, so too should sloth bear cubs.<br><br>An alternative explanation is defense from predation. Black bear cubs use trees for defense, whereas brown bears and polar bears, which regularly inhabit treeless environments, rely on aggression to protect their cubs. Like brown bears and polar bears (and unlike other myrmecophagous mammals, which are noted for their passivity), sloth bears are easily provoked to aggression. Sloth bears also have relatively large canine teeth, which appear to be more functional for fighting than for foraging. Like brown bears and polar bears, sloth bears may have evolved in an environment with few trees. They are especially attracted to food rich grasslands; although few types of grassland persist today on the Indian subcontinent, this type of habitat was once widespread there. Grasslands support high densities of tigers, which fight and sometimes kill sloth bears; sloth bears also coexist with and have been killed by tree-climbing leopards, and are often confronted and chased by rhinoceroses and elephants, which can topple trees. Collectively these factors probably selected against tree climbing as a defensive strategy for sloth bear cubs. Because sloth bears are smaller than brown and polar bears and are under greater threat from dangerous animals, they may have adopted the extra precaution of carrying their cubs. Although cub carrying may also be adaptive for myrmecophagous foraging, the behavior of sloth bear cubs, which on their mother's back at the first sign of danger, suggests that predation was a key stimulus.
Which of the following is mentioned in the passage as a way in which brown bears and sloth bears are similar?
(A) They tend to become aggressive when provoked.
(B) They live almost exclusively in treeless environments.
(C) They are preyed upon by animals that can climb or topple trees.
(D) They are inefficient in their locomotion.
(E) They have relatively large canine teeth.
---------------------------------
#RC#P9-4 (Easy)#D#4500
The sloth bear, an insect-eating animal native to Nepal, exhibits only one behavior that is truly distinct from that of other bear species: the females carry their cubs (at least part-time) until the cubs are about nine months old, even though the cubs can walk on their own at six months. Cub-carrying also occurs among some other myrmecophagous (ant-eating) mammals; therefore, one explanation is that cub-carrying is necessitated by myrmecophagy, since myrmecophagy entails a low metabolic rate and high energy expenditure in walking between food patches. However, although polar bears’ locomotion is similarly inefficient, polar bear cubs walk along with their mother. Furthermore, the daily movements of sloth bears and American black bears—which are similar in size to sloth bears and have similar-sized home ranges—reveal similar travel rates and distances, suggesting that if black bear cubs are able to keep up with their mother, so too should sloth bear cubs.<br><br>An alternative explanation is defense from predation. Black bear cubs use trees for defense, whereas brown bears and polar bears, which regularly inhabit treeless environments, rely on aggression to protect their cubs. Like brown bears and polar bears (and unlike other myrmecophagous mammals, which are noted for their passivity), sloth bears are easily provoked to aggression. Sloth bears also have relatively large canine teeth, which appear to be more functional for fighting than for foraging. Like brown bears and polar bears, sloth bears may have evolved in an environment with few trees. They are especially attracted to food rich grasslands; although few types of grassland persist today on the Indian subcontinent, this type of habitat was once widespread there. Grasslands support high densities of tigers, which fight and sometimes kill sloth bears; sloth bears also coexist with and have been killed by tree-climbing leopards, and are often confronted and chased by rhinoceroses and elephants, which can topple trees. Collectively these factors probably selected against tree climbing as a defensive strategy for sloth bear cubs. Because sloth bears are smaller than brown and polar bears and are under greater threat from dangerous animals, they may have adopted the extra precaution of carrying their cubs. Although cub carrying may also be adaptive for myrmecophagous foraging, the behavior of sloth bear cubs, which on their mother's back at the first sign of danger, suggests that predation was a key stimulus.
The author mentions which of the following as evidence for the view that cub-carrying behavior among sloth bears functions primarily as a defense from predation?
(A) The relative passivity of sloth bears in comparison with other species of bears
(B) The age at which sloth bear cubs can defend themselves from predators
(C) The unsuitability of cub-carrying for myrmecophagous foraging
(D) The behavior of sloth bear cubs when they first perceive danger
(E) The inefficient locomotion of sloth bears and other myrmecophagous animals
---------------------------------
#RC#P9-5 (Easy)#B#4600
The sloth bear, an insect-eating animal native to Nepal, exhibits only one behavior that is truly distinct from that of other bear species: the females carry their cubs (at least part-time) until the cubs are about nine months old, even though the cubs can walk on their own at six months. Cub-carrying also occurs among some other myrmecophagous (ant-eating) mammals; therefore, one explanation is that cub-carrying is necessitated by myrmecophagy, since myrmecophagy entails a low metabolic rate and high energy expenditure in walking between food patches. However, although polar bears’ locomotion is similarly inefficient, polar bear cubs walk along with their mother. Furthermore, the daily movements of sloth bears and American black bears—which are similar in size to sloth bears and have similar-sized home ranges—reveal similar travel rates and distances, suggesting that if black bear cubs are able to keep up with their mother, so too should sloth bear cubs.<br><br>An alternative explanation is defense from predation. Black bear cubs use trees for defense, whereas brown bears and polar bears, which regularly inhabit treeless environments, rely on aggression to protect their cubs. Like brown bears and polar bears (and unlike other myrmecophagous mammals, which are noted for their passivity), sloth bears are easily provoked to aggression. Sloth bears also have relatively large canine teeth, which appear to be more functional for fighting than for foraging. Like brown bears and polar bears, sloth bears may have evolved in an environment with few trees. They are especially attracted to food rich grasslands; although few types of grassland persist today on the Indian subcontinent, this type of habitat was once widespread there. Grasslands support high densities of tigers, which fight and sometimes kill sloth bears; sloth bears also coexist with and have been killed by tree-climbing leopards, and are often confronted and chased by rhinoceroses and elephants, which can topple trees. Collectively these factors probably selected against tree climbing as a defensive strategy for sloth bear cubs. Because sloth bears are smaller than brown and polar bears and are under greater threat from dangerous animals, they may have adopted the extra precaution of carrying their cubs. Although cub carrying may also be adaptive for myrmecophagous foraging, the behavior of sloth bear cubs, which on their mother's back at the first sign of danger, suggests that predation was a key stimulus.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) trace the development of a particular behavioral characteristic of the sloth bear
(B) explore possible explanations for a particular behavioral characteristic of the sloth bear
(C) compare the defensive strategies of sloth bear cubs to the defensive strategies of cubs of other bear species
(D) describe how certain behavioral characteristics of the sloth bear differ from those of other myrmecophagous mammals
(E) provide an alternative to a generally accepted explanation of a particular behavioral characteristic of myrmecophagous mammals
---------------------------------
#RC#P10-1 (Medium)#C#4700
Many scholars have theorized that economic development, particularly industrialization and urbanization, contributes to the growth of participatory democracy; according to this theory, it would seem logical that women would both demand and gain suffrage in ever greater numbers whenever economic development expanded their economic opportunities. However, the economic development theory is inadequate to explain certain historical facts about the implementation of women's suffrage. For example, why was women's suffrage, instituted nationally in the United States in 1920, not instituted nationally in Switzerland until the 19705? Industrialization was well advanced in both countries by 1920: over 33 percent of American workers were employed in various industries, as compared to 44 percent of Swiss workers. Granted, Switzerland and the United States diverged in the degree to which the expansion of industry coincided with the degree of urbanization: only 29 percent of the Swiss population lived in cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by 1920. However, urbanization cannot fully explain women's suffrage. Within the United States prior to 1920, for example, only less urbanized states had granted women suffrage. Similarly, less urbanized countries such as Cambodia and Ghana had voting rights for women long before Switzerland did. It is true that Switzerland's urbanized cantons (political subdivisions) generally enacted women's suffrage legislation earlier than did rural cantons. However, these cantons often shared other characteristics— similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties—that may help to explain this phenomenon.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) contrast two explanations for the implementation of women's suffrage
(B) demonstrate that one factor contributes more than another factor to the implementation of women's suffrage
(C) discuss the applicability of a theory for explaining the implementation of women's suffrage
(D) clarify certain assumptions underlying a particular theory about the implementation of women's suffrage
(E) explain how a particular historical occurrence was causally connected to the implementation of women's suffrage
---------------------------------
#RC#P10-2 (Medium)#D#4800
<span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Many scholars</strong></span> have theorized that economic development, particularly industrialization and urbanization, contributes to the growth of participatory democracy; according to this theory, it would seem logical that women would both demand and gain suffrage in ever greater numbers whenever economic development expanded their economic opportunities. However, the economic development theory is inadequate to explain certain historical facts about the implementation of women's suffrage. For example, why was women's suffrage, instituted nationally in the United States in 1920, not instituted nationally in Switzerland until the 19705? Industrialization was well advanced in both countries by 1920: over 33 percent of American workers were employed in various industries, as compared to 44 percent of Swiss workers. Granted, Switzerland and the United States diverged in the degree to which the expansion of industry coincided with the degree of urbanization: only 29 percent of the Swiss population lived in cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by 1920. However, urbanization cannot fully explain women's suffrage. Within the United States prior to 1920, for example, only less urbanized states had granted women suffrage. Similarly, less urbanized countries such as Cambodia and Ghana had voting rights for women long before Switzerland did. It is true that Switzerland's urbanized cantons (political subdivisions) generally enacted women's suffrage legislation earlier than did rural cantons. However, these cantons often shared other characteristics— similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties—that may help to explain this phenomenon.
According to the passage, the scholars mentioned in the highlighted text assert which of the following about the growth of participatory democracy within a particular nation?
(A) It is not necessarily correlated with increasing income and opportunities for women in that nation.
(B) It is not necessarily related to the implementation of women's suffrage within that nation.
(C) It cannot adequately explain the nation's level of economic development.
(D) It tends to be encouraged by the occurrence of industrialization in that nation.
(E) It is to increase with the growth of leftist parties in that nation.
---------------------------------
#RC#P10-3 (Easy)#E#4900
Many scholars have theorized that economic development, particularly industrialization and urbanization, contributes to the growth of participatory democracy; according to this theory, it would seem logical that women would both demand and gain suffrage in ever greater numbers whenever economic development expanded their economic opportunities. However, the economic development theory is inadequate to explain certain historical facts about the implementation of women's suffrage. For example, why was women's suffrage, instituted nationally in the United States in 1920, not instituted nationally in Switzerland until the 19705? Industrialization was well advanced in both countries by 1920: over 33 percent of American workers were employed in various industries, as compared to 44 percent of Swiss workers. Granted, Switzerland and the United States diverged in the degree to which the expansion of industry coincided with the degree of urbanization: only 29 percent of the Swiss population lived in cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by 1920. However, urbanization cannot fully explain women's suffrage. Within the United States prior to 1920, for example, only less urbanized states had granted women suffrage. Similarly, less urbanized countries such as Cambodia and Ghana had voting rights for women long before Switzerland did. It is true that Switzerland's urbanized cantons (political subdivisions) generally enacted women's suffrage legislation earlier than did rural cantons. However, these cantons often shared other characteristics— similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties—that may help to explain this phenomenon.
The passage suggests which of the following about states in the United States prior to 1920?
(A) The states that were not highly urbanized were slow to grant women's suffrage.
(B) The states that were highly urbanized were the most influential in determining national policies regarding suffrage.
(C) The most highly urbanized states were more likely to have strong leftist parties.
(D) The most highly urbanized states were not necessarily the most industrialized ones.
(E) The most highly urbanized states had not yet granted women's suffrage.
---------------------------------
#RC#P10-4 (Medium)#A#5000
Many scholars have theorized that economic development, particularly industrialization and urbanization, contributes to the growth of participatory democracy; according to this theory, it would seem logical that women would both demand and gain suffrage in ever greater numbers whenever economic development expanded their economic opportunities. However, the economic development theory is inadequate to explain certain historical facts about the implementation of women's suffrage. For example, why was women's suffrage, instituted nationally in the United States in 1920, not instituted nationally in Switzerland until the 19705? Industrialization was well advanced in both countries by 1920: over 33 percent of American workers were employed in various industries, as compared to 44 percent of Swiss workers. Granted, Switzerland and the United States diverged in the degree to which the expansion of industry coincided with the degree of urbanization: only 29 percent of the Swiss population lived in cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by 1920. However, urbanization cannot fully explain women's suffrage. Within the United States prior to 1920, for example, only less urbanized states had granted women suffrage. Similarly, less urbanized countries such as Cambodia and Ghana had voting rights for women long before Switzerland did. It is true that Switzerland's urbanized cantons (political subdivisions) generally enacted women's suffrage legislation earlier than did rural cantons. However, these cantons often shared other characteristics— similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties—that may help to explain this phenomenon.
The passage states which of the following about Switzerland's urbanized cantons?
(A) These cantons shared characteristics other than urbanization that may have contributed to their implementation of women's suffrage.
(B) These cantons tended to be more politically divided than were rural cantons.
(C) These cantons shared with certain rural cantons characteristics such as similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties.
(D) The populations of these cantons shared similar views because urbanization furthered the diffusion of ideas among them.
(E) These cantons were comparable to the most highly urbanized states in the United States in their stance toward the implementation of women's suffrage.
---------------------------------
#RC#P10-5 (Medium)#E#5100
Many scholars have theorized that economic development, particularly industrialization and urbanization, contributes to the growth of participatory democracy; according to this theory, it would seem logical that women would both demand and gain suffrage in ever greater numbers whenever economic development expanded their economic opportunities. However, the economic development theory is inadequate to explain certain historical facts about the implementation of women's suffrage. For example, why was women's suffrage, instituted nationally in the United States in 1920, not instituted nationally in Switzerland until the 19705? Industrialization was well advanced in both countries by 1920: over 33 percent of American workers were employed in various industries, as compared to 44 percent of Swiss workers. Granted, Switzerland and the United States diverged in the degree to which the expansion of industry coincided with the degree of urbanization: only 29 percent of the Swiss population lived in cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by 1920. However, urbanization cannot fully explain women's suffrage. Within the United States prior to 1920, for example, only less urbanized states had granted women suffrage. Similarly, less urbanized countries such as Cambodia and Ghana had voting rights for women long before Switzerland did. It is true that Switzerland's urbanized cantons (political subdivisions) generally enacted women's suffrage legislation earlier than did rural cantons. However, these cantons often shared other characteristics— similar linguistic backgrounds and strong leftist parties—that may help to explain this phenomenon.
The passage suggests which of the following about urbanization in Switzerland and the United States by 1920?
(A) A greater percentage of Swiss industrial workers than American industrial workers [wed in urban areas.
(B) There were more cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants in Switzerland than there were in the United States.
(C) Swiss workers Irving in urban areas were more likely to be employed in industry than were American workers living in urban areas.
(D) Urbanized areas of Switzerland were more likely than similar areas in the United States to have strong leftist parties.
(E) A greater percentage of the United States population than the Swiss population lived in urban areas.
---------------------------------
#RC#P11-1 (Easy)#A#5200
White tigers are neither a species nor a subspecies, but appear as a result of a recessive trait that rarely occurs in the wild. In the 1950s many zoos deliberately and indiscriminately bred white tigers, but more recently, concerns about the desirability of preserving a trait that presumably hinders tigers to survive in the wild, and recognition that inbreeding could lead to genetic defects, have caused most 2005 to such practices. However, some 200 managers argue that the popularity of white tigers provides income important to the survival of zoo sponsored scientific and conservation programs. They also point out that most of the white tigers captured in the wild were adults, proving that their coloration does not hinder their survival ability.<br><br>Opponents of white-tiger breeding programs argue that white tigers are merely Indian tigers—a subspecies well represented in both zoos and the wild—and that zoos should focus their tiger management efforts on preserving subspecies whose existence is threatened, thus preventing the Chinese and Indochinese tiger subspecies from joining the Javan, Balinese, and Caspian subspecies in extinction. Alternatively, zoos could mingle the subspecies and manage all tigers in captivity as one species. Although subspecies differences would be lost, this strategy would be advantageous because fewer animals would be necessary to maintain the genetic diversity of tigers in captivity, making scarce zoo resources available for housing other endangered felines.
The passage suggests that, compared with other tiger subspecies, the Indian tiger is
(A) less threatened by extinction
(B) less readily bred in captivity less
(C) likely to survive in the wild
(D) more likely to be bred indiscriminately
(E) more popular with 200 visitors
---------------------------------
#RC#P11-2 (Easy)#E#5300
White tigers are neither a species nor a subspecies, but appear as a result of a recessive trait that rarely occurs in the wild. In the 1950s many zoos deliberately and indiscriminately bred white tigers, but more recently, concerns about the desirability of preserving a trait that presumably hinders tigers to survive in the wild, and recognition that inbreeding could lead to genetic defects, have caused most 2005 to such practices. However, some 200 managers argue that the popularity of white tigers provides income important to the survival of zoo sponsored scientific and conservation programs. <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>They also point out that most of the white tigers captured in the wild were adults, proving that their coloration does not hinder their survival ability.</strong></span><br><br><span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Opponents of white-tiger breeding programs</strong></span> argue that white tigers are merely Indian tigers—a subspecies well represented in both zoos and the wild—and that zoos should focus their tiger management efforts on preserving subspecies whose existence is threatened, thus preventing the Chinese and Indochinese tiger subspecies from joining the Javan, Balinese, and Caspian subspecies in extinction. Alternatively, zoos could mingle the subspecies and manage all tigers in captivity as one species. Although subspecies differences would be lost, this strategy would be advantageous because fewer animals would be necessary to maintain the genetic diversity of tigers in captivity, making scarce zoo resources available for housing other endangered felines.
The “Opponents of white-tiger breeding programs" mentioned in the highlighted text advocate that zoos use their resources to
(A) promote public awareness of environmental threats to tiger habitats
(B) allow 2005 to house enough tigers to ensure genetic diversity among Indian tigers
(C) study ways to increase the survival rates of white tigers in the wild
(D) investigate ways of maintaining the white tigers already in zoos
(E) preserve tiger subspecies that may be endangered
---------------------------------
#RC#P11-3 (Easy)#C#5400
White tigers are neither a species nor a subspecies, but appear as a result of a recessive trait that rarely occurs in the wild. In the 1950s many zoos deliberately and indiscriminately bred white tigers, but more recently, concerns about the desirability of preserving a trait that presumably hinders tigers to survive in the wild, and recognition that inbreeding could lead to genetic defects, have caused most 2005 to such practices. However, some 200 managers argue that the popularity of white tigers provides income important to the survival of zoo sponsored scientific and conservation programs. They also point out that most of the white tigers captured in the wild were adults, proving that their coloration does not hinder their survival ability.<br><br>Opponents of white-tiger breeding programs argue that white tigers are merely Indian tigers—a subspecies well represented in both zoos and the wild—and that zoos should focus their tiger management efforts on preserving subspecies whose existence is threatened, thus preventing the Chinese and Indochinese tiger subspecies from joining the Javan, Balinese, and Caspian subspecies in extinction. Alternatively, zoos could mingle the subspecies and manage all tigers in captivity as one species. Although subspecies differences would be lost, this strategy would be advantageous because fewer animals would be necessary to maintain the genetic diversity of tigers in captivity, making scarce zoo resources available for housing other endangered felines.
Which of the following best describes the function of the last sentence in the first paragraph of the passage (see highlighted text)?
(A) To emphasize the importance of white tigers as source of ZOO income
(B) To point out the advantages to white tigers of fiving in the wild
(C) To provide evidence counter to an argument against the breeding of white tigers
(D) To suggest that white tigers [wing in the wild are less to face extinction than tigers fiving in zoos
(E) To suggest that white tigers are not endangered
---------------------------------
#RC#P11-4 (Easy)#A#5500
White tigers are neither a species nor a subspecies, but appear as a result of a recessive trait that rarely occurs in the wild. In the 1950s many zoos deliberately and indiscriminately bred white tigers, but more recently, concerns about the desirability of preserving a trait that presumably hinders tigers to survive in the wild, and recognition that inbreeding could lead to genetic defects, have caused most 2005 to such practices. However, some 200 managers argue that the popularity of white tigers provides income important to the survival of zoo sponsored scientific and conservation programs. They also point out that most of the white tigers captured in the wild were adults, proving that their coloration does not hinder their survival ability.<br><br>Opponents of white-tiger breeding programs argue that white tigers are merely Indian tigers—a subspecies well represented in both zoos and the wild—and that zoos should focus their tiger management efforts on preserving subspecies whose existence is threatened, thus preventing the Chinese and Indochinese tiger subspecies from joining the Javan, Balinese, and Caspian subspecies in extinction. Alternatively, zoos could mingle the subspecies and manage all tigers in captivity as one species. Although subspecies differences would be lost, this strategy would be advantageous because fewer animals would be necessary to maintain the genetic diversity of tigers in captivity, making scarce zoo resources available for housing other endangered felines.
The author of the passage suggests that if all tigers in captivity were managed as one species, then zoos would be able to
(A) use their resources to preserve a variety of other felines
(B) increase public interest in tigers and thus attract more visitors and income
(C) provide better habitats for tigers than they currently do
(D) prevent the extinction of existing tiger subspecies
(E) continue breeding white tigers
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-1 (Medium)#E#5600
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
Which of the following does the passage mention as providing evidence of the dual nature of quantum objects?
(A) Scientists’ inability to measure the position and momentum of quantum objects simultaneously
(B) Scientists’ inability to measure the momentum of quantum objects with certainty
(C) The similarities in the appearance of particles and waves
(D) The tendency of quantum objects to exhibit well-defined trajectories only at either extremely high or extremely low speeds
(E) The behavior of quantum objects as either particles or waves depending on the type of experiment that is performed
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-2 (Hard)#B#5700
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
It can be inferred from the passage that if scientists were able to measure the position and momentum of quantum objects precisely and simultaneously, then the
(A) theory that the dual properties of quantum objects are complementary would be proven
(B) basic postulate of the uncertainty principle would be refuted
(C) distinction between particle behavior and wave behavior would cease to exist
(D) debate about quantum theory among physicists would be unchanged
(E) trajectories of quantum objects through space would be more difficult to predict
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-3 (Easy)#D#5800
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
All of the following are mentioned in the passage as possible characteristics of quantum objects EXCEPT
(A) a minute size
(B) momentum
(C) position in space
(D) sporadic movement
(E) wave-like behavior
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-4 (Medium)#E#5900
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
Which of the following, if true, would most seriously undermine Bohr's conclusion about the physical reality of a quantum object?
(A) The physical properties of particles and waves are inherently complementary.
(B) Human intuition is not a factor in the interpretation of scientific data about quantum objects.
(C) Results of experiments on quantum objects are sometimes influenced by the expectations of the experimenters.
(D) The technology used in research on quantum objects has made tremendous advances since the 19205.
(E) Quantum objects possess distinct, continuously existing physical forms that do not depend on the experiments used to measure them.
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-5 (Easy)#C#6000
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
(A) A thesis is introduced and then amended.
(B) Arguments are presented, weighed, and then reconciled.
(C) A problem is described and different interpretations intended to resolve the problem are presented.
(D) Hypotheses are analyzed, their premises are refuted, and alternatives are suggested to replace the hypotheses.
(E) A theory is advanced, opposing evidence is considered, and the theory is abandoned.
---------------------------------
#RC#P12-6 (Easy)#B#6100
Quantum theory, although of tremendous scientific value, has nevertheless prompted debate among physicists. The debate arose because quantum theory addresses the peculiar properties of minute objects such as photons and electrons. While one type of experiment shows that these objects behave like particles, with well-defined trajectories through space, another demonstrates that, on the contrary, they behave waves, their peaks and troughs producing characteristic “interference" effects. However, scientists have failed to devise an experiment to demonstrate both behaviors simultaneously.<br><br>In the 1920s, two alternate interpretations of quantum theory attempted to resolve this apparently contradictory wave-particle duality. Physicist Niels Bohr argued that wave-particle properties are not contradictory, but complementary. Contrary to our intuition that an object continues to exist in some determined form even though we cannot perceive it, he concluded that the physical of a quantum object is actually undetermined before the object is observed via experiment.<br><br>Physicist Werner Heisenberg's “uncertainty principle," by contrast, postulated that we cannot precisely determine two complementary properties, such as position and momentum, of a quantum object simultaneously: if we measure an object's position with absolute certainty, then there is an infinite uncertainty in its momentum, and vice versa. He concluded that although we are limited in our ability to measure objects at the atomic and subatomic levels, their position and momentum are nonetheless defined all along.
The passage suggests that the debate among physicists mentioned in the first sentence has arisen in part because
(A) the rapid movement of quantum objects poses an insurmountable obstacle to precise measurement
(B) scientists have been unable to devise a single experiment that reveals both particle and wave properties of quantum objects simultaneously
(C) the controversial nature of quantum theory has made it for scientists to agree on what evidence is acceptable
(D) division among physicists has resulted in the design of experiments that produce unintelligible experimental results
(E) research efforts have been undermined by irreconcilable contradictions between equally compelling interpretations of quantum theory
---------------------------------
#RC#P13-1 (Hard)#C#6200
Anthropologists studying the Hopi people of the southwestern United States often characterize Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 as surprisingly stable, considering that it was a period of diminution in population and pressure from contact with outside groups, factors that might be expected to cause significant changes in Hopi social arrangements.<br><br>The Hopis' retention of their distinctive sociocultural system has been attributed to the Hopi religious elite's determined efforts to preserve their religion and way of life, and also to a geographical isolation greater than that of many other Native American groups, an isolation that limited both cultural contact and exposure to European diseases. But equally important to Hopi cultural persistence may have been an inherent in their social system that may have allowed preservation of traditions even as the Hopis accommodated themselves to change. For example, the system of matrilineal clans was maintained throughout this period, even though some clans merged to form larger groups while others divided into smaller descent groups. Furthermore, although traditionally members of particular Hopi clans appear to have exclusively controlled particular ceremonies, a clan's control of a ceremony might shift to another clan if the first became too small to manage the responsibility. Village leadership positions traditionally restricted to members of one clan might be similarly extended to members of other clans, and women might assume such positions under certain unusual conditions.
Which of the following can be inferred from the passage about the Hopis' geographic situation between 1680 and 1880?
(A) It prevented the Hopis from experiencing a diminution in population.
(B) It helped to promote within their social system.
(C) It limited but did not eliminate contact with other cultural groups.
(D) It reinforced the religious elite’s determination to resist cultural change.
(E) It tended to limit contact between certain Hopi clans.
---------------------------------
#RC#P13-2 (Medium)#D#6300
Anthropologists studying the Hopi people of the southwestern United States often characterize Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 as surprisingly stable, considering that it was a period of diminution in population and pressure from contact with outside groups, factors that might be expected to cause significant changes in Hopi social arrangements.<br><br>The Hopis' retention of their distinctive sociocultural system has been attributed to the Hopi religious elite's determined efforts to preserve their religion and way of life, and also to a geographical isolation greater than that of many other Native American groups, an isolation that limited both cultural contact and exposure to European diseases. But equally important to Hopi cultural persistence may have been an inherent in their social system that may have allowed preservation of traditions even as the Hopis accommodated themselves to change. For example, the system of matrilineal clans was maintained throughout this period, even though some clans merged to form larger groups while others divided into smaller descent groups. Furthermore, although traditionally members of particular Hopi clans appear to have exclusively controlled particular ceremonies, a clan's control of a ceremony might shift to another clan if the first became too small to manage the responsibility. Village leadership positions traditionally restricted to members of one clan might be similarly extended to members of other clans, and women might assume such positions under certain unusual conditions.
The author of the passage mentions the control of ceremonies by particular Hopi clans most in order to
(A) provide an example of the way in which the religious elite protected their position within Hopi society
(B) note an exception to a larger pattern evident in many Native American cultures
(C) explain the connection in Hopi culture between regions and political leadership
(D) illustrate how the Hopis combined flexibility with tradition
(E) cite evidence that counters a common misconception about the structure of Hopi society
---------------------------------
#RC#P13-3 (Medium)#C#6400
Anthropologists studying the Hopi people of the southwestern United States often characterize Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 as surprisingly stable, considering that it was a period of diminution in population and pressure from contact with outside groups, factors that might be expected to cause significant changes in Hopi social arrangements.<br><br>The Hopis' retention of their distinctive sociocultural system has been attributed to the Hopi religious elite's determined efforts to preserve their religion and way of life, and also to a geographical isolation greater than that of many other Native American groups, an isolation that limited both cultural contact and exposure to European diseases. But equally important to Hopi cultural persistence may have been an inherent in their social system that may have allowed preservation of traditions even as the Hopis accommodated themselves to change. For example, the system of matrilineal clans was maintained throughout this period, even though some clans merged to form larger groups while others divided into smaller descent groups. Furthermore, although traditionally members of particular Hopi clans appear to have exclusively controlled particular ceremonies, a clan's control of a ceremony might shift to another clan if the first became too small to manage the responsibility. Village leadership positions traditionally restricted to members of one clan might be similarly extended to members of other clans, and women might assume such positions under certain unusual conditions.
The passage suggests that sociocultural change in Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 was
(A) initiated primarily by contact with other cultural groups
(B) greater than that experienced by many other Native American peoples during that period
(C) less pronounced than might be expected, given the demographic conditions and external pressures during that period
(D) less pronounced than it had been previously because of diminution in the Hopi population occurring after 1680
(E) accelerated by the particular geographic circumstances of the Hopis
---------------------------------
#RC#P13-4 (Hard)#D#6500
Anthropologists studying the Hopi people of the southwestern United States often characterize Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 as surprisingly stable, considering that it was a period of diminution in population and pressure from contact with outside groups, factors that might be expected to cause significant changes in Hopi social arrangements.<br><br>The Hopis' retention of their distinctive sociocultural system has been attributed to the Hopi religious elite's determined efforts to preserve their religion and way of life, and also to a geographical isolation greater than that of many other Native American groups, an isolation that limited both cultural contact and exposure to European diseases. But equally important to Hopi cultural persistence may have been an inherent in their social system that may have allowed preservation of traditions even as the Hopis accommodated themselves to change. For example, the system of matrilineal clans was maintained throughout this period, even though some clans merged to form larger groups while others divided into smaller descent groups. Furthermore, although traditionally members of particular Hopi clans appear to have exclusively controlled particular ceremonies, a clan's control of a ceremony might shift to another clan if the first became too small to manage the responsibility. Village leadership positions traditionally restricted to members of one clan might be similarly extended to members of other clans, and women might assume such positions under certain unusual conditions.
The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) reassessing a phenomenon in fight of new findings
(B) assessing the relative importance of two factors underlying a phenomenon
(C) examining the assumptions underlying an interpretation of a phenomenon
(D) expanding on an explanation of a phenomenon
(E) contrasting two methods for evaluating a phenomenon
---------------------------------
#RC#P13-5 (Hard)#E#6600
Anthropologists studying the Hopi people of the southwestern United States often characterize Hopi society between 1680 and 1880 as surprisingly stable, considering that it was a period of diminution in population and pressure from contact with outside groups, factors that might be expected to cause significant changes in Hopi social arrangements.<br><br><span style="background:yellow;"><strong>The Hopis' retention of their distinctive sociocultural system has been attributed to the Hopi religious elite's determined efforts to preserve their religion and way of life, and also to a geographical isolation greater than that of many other Native American groups, an isolation that limited both cultural contact and exposure to European diseases.</strong></span> But equally important to Hopi cultural persistence may have been an inherent in their social system that may have allowed preservation of traditions even as the Hopis accommodated themselves to change. For example, the system of matrilineal clans was maintained throughout this period, even though some clans merged to form larger groups while others divided into smaller descent groups. Furthermore, although traditionally members of particular Hopi clans appear to have exclusively controlled particular ceremonies, a clan's control of a ceremony might shift to another clan if the first became too small to manage the responsibility. Village leadership positions traditionally restricted to members of one clan might be similarly extended to members of other clans, and women might assume such positions under certain unusual conditions.
The author of the passage would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements about the explanation outlined in the highlighted text?
(A) It fails to take into account the effect of geographical circumstances on Hopi culture.
(B) It correctly emphasizes the role of the religious elite in maintaining the system of matrilineal clans.
(C) It represents a misreading of Hopi culture because it fails to take into account the actual differences that existed among the various Hopi clans.
(D) It underestimates the effect on Hopi cultural development of contact with other cultural groups.
(E) It is correct but may be insufficient in itself to explain Hopi sociocultural persistence.
---------------------------------
#RC#P14-1 (Easy)#B#6700
In Forces of Production, David Noble examines the transformation of the machine-tool industry as the industry moved from reliance on skilled artisans to automation. Noble writes from a Marxist perspective, and his central argument is that management, in its decisions to automate, conspired against labor: the power that the skilled machinists wielded in the industry was intolerable to management. Noble fails to substantiate this claim, although his argument is impressive when he applies the Marxist concept of “de-skilling”—the use of technology to replace skilled the automation of the machine-tool industry. In automating, the industry moved to computer-based, digitalized “numerical control" (N/C) technology, rather than to artisan generated “record-playback" (R/P) technology.<br><br>Although both systems reduced reliance on skilled labor, Noble clearly prefers R/P, with its inherent acknowledgment of workers’ skills: unlike N/C, its programs were produced not by engineers at their computers, but by skilled machinists, who recorded their own movements to “teach" machines to duplicate those movements. However, Noble's only evidence of conspiracy is that, although the two approaches were roughly equal in technical merit, management chose N/C. From this he concludes that automation is undertaken not because efficiency demands it or scientific advances allow it. but because it is a tool in the ceaseless war of capitalists against labor.
According to information in the passage, the term "de-skilling" refers to the
(A) loss of skills that are lost to industry when skilled workers are replaced by unskilled laborers
(B) substitution of mechanized processes for labor formerly performed by skilled workers
(C) labor theory that automation is technologically comparable to skilled labor
(D) process by which skilled machinists “teach" machines to perform certain tasks
(E) exclusion of skilled workers from participation in the development of automated technology
---------------------------------
#RC#P14-2 (Medium)#C#6800
In Forces of Production, David Noble examines the transformation of the machine-tool industry as the industry moved from reliance on skilled artisans to automation. Noble writes from a Marxist perspective, and his central argument is that management, in its decisions to automate, conspired against labor: the power that the skilled machinists wielded in the industry was intolerable to management. Noble fails to substantiate this claim, although his argument is impressive when he applies the Marxist concept of “de-skilling”—the use of technology to replace skilled the automation of the machine-tool industry. In automating, the industry moved to computer-based, digitalized “numerical control" (N/C) technology, rather than to artisan generated “record-playback" (R/P) technology.<br><br>Although both systems reduced reliance on skilled labor, Noble clearly prefers R/P, with its inherent acknowledgment of workers’ skills: unlike N/C, its programs were produced not by engineers at their computers, but by skilled machinists, who recorded their own movements to “teach" machines to duplicate those movements. However, Noble's only evidence of conspiracy is that, although the two approaches were roughly equal in technical merit, management chose N/C. From this he concludes that automation is undertaken not because efficiency demands it or scientific advances allow it. but because it is a tool in the ceaseless war of capitalists against labor.
The passage suggests which of the following about NJC automation in the machine-tool industry?
(A) It displaced fewer skilled workers than automation did.
(B) It could have been implemented either by experienced machinists or by computer engineers.
(C) It was designed without the active involvement of skilled machinists.
(D) It was more difficult to design than automation was.
(E) It was technically superior to automation.
---------------------------------
#RC#P14-3 (Hard)#D#6900
In Forces of Production, David Noble examines the transformation of the machine-tool industry as the industry moved from reliance on skilled artisans to automation. Noble writes from a Marxist perspective, and his central argument is that management, in its decisions to automate, conspired against labor: the power that the skilled machinists wielded in the industry was intolerable to management. Noble fails to substantiate this claim, although his argument is impressive when he applies the Marxist concept of “de-skilling”—the use of technology to replace skilled the automation of the machine-tool industry. In automating, the industry moved to computer-based, digitalized “numerical control" (N/C) technology, rather than to artisan generated “record-playback" (R/P) technology.<br><br>Although both systems reduced reliance on skilled labor, Noble clearly prefers R/P, with its inherent acknowledgment of workers’ skills: unlike N/C, its programs were produced not by engineers at their computers, but by skilled machinists, who recorded their own movements to “teach" machines to duplicate those movements. However, Noble's only evidence of conspiracy is that, although the two approaches were roughly equal in technical merit, management chose N/C. From this he concludes that automation is undertaken not because efficiency demands it or scientific advances allow it. but because it is a tool in the ceaseless war of capitalists against labor.
Which of the following best characterizes Forces of Production as it is described in the passage?
(A) A comparison of two interpretations of how a particular industry evolved
(B) An examination of the origin of a particular concept in industrial economics
(C) A study that points out the weakness of a particular interpretation of an industrial phenomenon
(D) A history of a particular industry from an ideological point of view
(E) An attempt to relate an industrial phenomenon in one industry to a similar phenomenon in another industry
---------------------------------
#RC#P14-4 (Medium)#E#7000
In Forces of Production, David Noble examines the transformation of the machine-tool industry as the industry moved from reliance on skilled artisans to automation. Noble writes from a Marxist perspective, and his central argument is that management, in its decisions to automate, conspired against labor: the power that the skilled machinists wielded in the industry was intolerable to management. Noble fails to substantiate this claim, although his argument is impressive when he applies the Marxist concept of “de-skilling”—the use of technology to replace skilled the automation of the machine-tool industry. In automating, the industry moved to computer-based, digitalized “numerical control" (N/C) technology, rather than to artisan generated “record-playback" (R/P) technology.<br><br>Although both systems reduced reliance on skilled labor, Noble clearly prefers R/P, with its inherent acknowledgment of workers’ skills: unlike N/C, its programs were produced not by engineers at their computers, but by skilled machinists, who recorded their own movements to “teach" machines to duplicate those movements. However, Noble's only evidence of conspiracy is that, although the two approaches were roughly equal in technical merit, management chose N/C. From this he concludes that automation is undertaken not because efficiency demands it or scientific advances allow it. but because it is a tool in the ceaseless war of capitalists against labor.
The author of the passage commends Noble's book for which of the following?
(A) Concentrating on skilled as opposed to unskilled workers in its discussion of the machine-tool industry
(B) Offering a generalization about the motives behind the machine-tool industry/‘s decision to automate
(C) Making an essential distinction between two kinds of technology employed in the machine-tool industry
(D) Calling into question the notion that managers conspired against labor in the automation of the machine-tool industry
(E) Applying the concept of de-skilling to the machine-tool industry
---------------------------------
#RC#P15-1 (Hard)#B#7100
According to a theory advanced by researcher Paul Martin, the wave of species extinctions that occurred in North America about 11,000 years ago, at the end of the Pleistocene era, can be directly attributed to the arrival of humans, i.e., the Paleoindians, who were ancestors of modern Native Americans. However, anthropologist Shepard Krech points out that large animal species vanished even in areas where there is no evidence to demonstrate that Paleoindians hunted them. Nor were extinctions confined to large animals: small animals, plants, and insects disappeared, presumably not all through human consumption. Krech also contradicts Martin's exclusion of climatic change as an explanation by asserting that widespread climatic change did indeed occur at the end of the Pleistocene. Still, Krech attributes secondary if not primary responsibility for the extinctions to the Paleoindians, arguing that humans have produced local extinctions elsewhere. But, according to historian Richard White, even the attribution of secondary responsibility may not be supported by the evidence. White observes that Martin's thesis depends on coinciding dates for the arrival of humans and the decline of large animal species, and Krech, though aware that the dates are controversial, does not challenge them; yet recent archaeological discoveries are providing evidence that the date of human arrival was much earlier than 11,000 years ago.
Which of the following, if true, would most weaken Krech’s objections to Martin's theory?
(A) Further studies showing that the climatic change that occurred at the end of the Pleistocene era was even more severe and widespread than was previously behaved
(B) New discoveries indicating that Paleoindians made use of the small animals, plants, and insects that became extinct
(C) Additional evidence indicating that widespread climatic change occurred not only at the end of the Pleistocene era but also in previous and subsequent eras
(D) Researchers’ discoveries that many more species became extinct in North America at the end of the Pleistocene era than was previously believed
(E) New discoveries establishing that both the arrival of humans in North America and the wave of Pleistocene extinctions took place much earlier than 11,000 years ago
---------------------------------
#RC#P15-2 (Medium)#A#7200
According to a theory advanced by researcher Paul Martin, the wave of species extinctions that occurred in North America about 11,000 years ago, at the end of the Pleistocene era, can be directly attributed to the arrival of humans, i.e., the Paleoindians, who were ancestors of modern Native Americans. However, anthropologist Shepard Krech points out that large animal species vanished even in areas where there is no evidence to demonstrate that Paleoindians hunted them. Nor were extinctions confined to large animals: small animals, plants, and insects disappeared, presumably not all through human consumption. Krech also contradicts Martin's exclusion of climatic change as an explanation by asserting that widespread climatic change did indeed occur at the end of the Pleistocene. Still, Krech attributes secondary if not primary responsibility for the extinctions to the Paleoindians, arguing that humans have produced local extinctions elsewhere. But, according to historian Richard White, even the attribution of secondary responsibility may not be supported by the evidence. White observes that Martin's thesis depends on coinciding dates for the arrival of humans and the decline of large animal species, and Krech, though aware that the dates are controversial, does not challenge them; yet recent archaeological discoveries are providing evidence that the date of human arrival was much earlier than 11,000 years ago.
The passage suggests that Krech would be most Nicety to agree with a theory of the Pleistocene species extinctions that
(A) included climate change as one of the causes of the extinctions
(B) incorporated a revised date for human arrival in North America
(C) eliminated the Paleoindians as a factor in the extinctions
(D) identified a single cause for the extinctions
(E) emphasized the role of hunting in causing most species extinctions
---------------------------------
#RC#P15-3 (Medium)#E#7300
According to a theory advanced by researcher Paul Martin, the wave of species extinctions that occurred in North America about 11,000 years ago, at the end of the Pleistocene era, can be directly attributed to the arrival of humans, i.e., the Paleoindians, who were ancestors of modern Native Americans. However, anthropologist Shepard Krech points out that large animal species vanished even in areas where there is no evidence to demonstrate that Paleoindians hunted them. Nor were extinctions confined to large animals: small animals, plants, and insects disappeared, presumably not all through human consumption. Krech also contradicts Martin's exclusion of climatic change as an explanation by asserting that widespread climatic change did indeed occur at the end of the Pleistocene. Still, Krech attributes secondary if not primary responsibility for the extinctions to the Paleoindians, arguing that humans have produced local extinctions elsewhere. But, according to historian Richard White, even the attribution of secondary responsibility may not be supported by the evidence. White observes that Martin's thesis depends on coinciding dates for the arrival of humans and the decline of large animal species, and Krech, though aware that the dates are controversial, does not challenge them; yet <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>recent archaeological discoveries</strong></span> are providing evidence that the date of human arrival was much earlier than 11,000 years ago.
In the last sentence of the passage, the author refers to “recent archaeological discoveries” (see highlighted text) most probably in order to
(A) refute White's suggestion that neither Martin nor Krech adequately account for Paleoindians' contributions to the Pleistocene extinctions
(B) cast doubt on the possibility that a more definitive theory regarding the causes of the Pleistocene extinctions may be forthcoming
(C) suggest that Martin's, and White's theories regarding the Pleistocene extinctions are all open to question
(D) call attention to the most controversial aspect of all the current theories regarding the Pleistocene extinctions
(E) provide support for White's questioning of both Martin's and Krech’s positions regarding the role of Paleoindians in the Pleistocene extinctions
---------------------------------
#RC#P15-4 (Easy)#D#7400
According to a theory advanced by researcher Paul Martin, the wave of species extinctions that occurred in North America about 11,000 years ago, at the end of the Pleistocene era, can be directly attributed to the arrival of humans, i.e., the Paleoindians, who were ancestors of modern Native Americans. However, anthropologist Shepard Krech points out that large animal species vanished even in areas where there is no evidence to demonstrate that Paleoindians hunted them. <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Nor were extinctions confined to large animals: small animals, plants, and insects disappeared, presumably not all through human consumption.</strong></span> Krech also contradicts Martin's exclusion of climatic change as an explanation by asserting that widespread climatic change did indeed occur at the end of the Pleistocene. Still, Krech attributes secondary if not primary responsibility for the extinctions to the Paleoindians, arguing that humans have produced local extinctions elsewhere. But, according to historian Richard White, even the attribution of secondary responsibility may not be supported by the evidence. White observes that Martin's thesis depends on coinciding dates for the arrival of humans and the decline of large animal species, and Krech, though aware that the dates are controversial, does not challenge them; yet recent archaeological discoveries are providing evidence that the date of human arrival was much earlier than 11,000 years ago.
The passage mentions the extinction of species other than large animals (see highlighted text) most probably in order to
(A) suggest that the Paleoindians were responsible for more extinctions than Martin's theory assumes
(B) provide support for the speculation that humans arrived in North America significantly earlier than the end of the Pleistocene era
(C) point out the only area in which Martin, Krech, and White agree concerning the circumstances of the Pleistocene extinctions
(D) cite additional evidence tending to support Krech’s conclusions about the role of humans in the Pleistocene extinctions
(E) raise a question about the logical consistency of Krech's view of Martin ’s theory
---------------------------------
#RC#P15-5 (Hard)#B#7500
According to a theory advanced by researcher Paul Martin, the wave of species extinctions that occurred in North America about 11,000 years ago, at the end of the Pleistocene era, can be directly attributed to the arrival of humans, i.e., the Paleoindians, who were ancestors of modern Native Americans. However, anthropologist Shepard Krech points out that large animal species vanished even in areas where there is no evidence to demonstrate that Paleoindians hunted them. Nor were extinctions confined to large animals: small animals, plants, and insects disappeared, presumably not all through human consumption. Krech also contradicts Martin's exclusion of climatic change as an explanation by asserting that widespread climatic change did indeed occur at the end of the Pleistocene. Still, Krech attributes secondary if not primary responsibility for the extinctions to the Paleoindians, arguing that humans have produced local extinctions elsewhere. But, according to historian Richard White, even the attribution of secondary responsibility may not be supported by the evidence. White observes that Martin's thesis depends on coinciding dates for the arrival of humans and the decline of large animal species, and Krech, though aware that the dates are controversial, does not challenge them; yet recent archaeological discoveries are providing evidence that the date of human arrival was much earlier than 11,000 years ago.
Which of the following is true about Martin's theory, as that theory is described in the passage?
(A) It assumes that the Paleoindians were primarily dependent on hunting for survival.
(B) It denies that the Pleistocene species extinctions were caused by climate change.
(C) It uses as evidence the fact that humans have produced local extinctions in other situations.
(D) It attempts to address the controversy over the date of human arrival in North America.
(E) It admits the possibility that factors other than the arrival of humans played a role in the Pleistocene extinctions.
---------------------------------
