####59####OG19
#RC#1 (P1 - 1)#C#100
In recent years, Western business managers have been heeding the exhortations of business journalists and academics to move their companies toward long-term, collaborative "strategic partnerships" with their external business partners (e.g., suppliers). The experts' advice comes as a natural reaction to numerous studies conducted during the past decade that compared Japanese production and supply practices with those of the rest of the world. The link between the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker and its effective management of its suppliers, for example, has led to an unquestioning belief within Western management circles in the value of strategic partnerships. Indeed, in the automobile sector all three United States manufacturers and most of their European competitors have launched programs to reduce their total number of suppliers and move toward having strategic partnerships with a few.<br><br>However, new research concerning supplier relationships in various industries demonstrates that the widespread assumption of Western managers and business consultants that Japanese firms manage their suppliers primarily through strategic partnerships is unjustified. Not only do Japanese firms appear to conduct a far smaller proportion of their business through strategic partnerships than is commonly believed, but they also make extensive use of "market-exchange" relationships, in which either party can turn to the marketplace and shift to different business partners at will, a practice usually associated with Western manufacturers.
The passage is primarily concerned with
(A) examining economic factors that may have contributed to the success of certain Japanese companies
(B) discussing the relative merits of strategic partnerships as compared with those of market-exchange relationship
(C) challenging the validity of a widely held assumption about how Japanese firms operate
(D) explaining why Western companies have been slow to adopt a particular practice favored by Japanese companies
(E) pointing out certain differences between Japanese and Western supplier relationships
---------------------------------
#RC#2 (P1 - 2)#E#200
In recent years, Western business managers have been heeding the exhortations of business journalists and academics to move their companies toward long-term, collaborative "strategic partnerships" with their external business partners (e.g., suppliers). The experts' <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>advice</span></strong> comes as a natural reaction to numerous studies conducted during the past decade that compared Japanese production and supply practices with those of the rest of the world. The link between the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker and its effective management of its suppliers, for example, has led to an unquestioning belief within Western management circles in the value of strategic partnerships. Indeed, in the automobile sector all three United States manufacturers and most of their European competitors have launched programs to reduce their total number of suppliers and move toward having strategic partnerships with a few.<br><br>However, new research concerning supplier relationships in various industries demonstrates that the widespread assumption of Western managers and business consultants that Japanese firms manage their suppliers primarily through strategic partnerships is unjustified. Not only do Japanese firms appear to conduct a far smaller proportion of their business through strategic partnerships than is commonly believed, but they also make extensive use of "market-exchange" relationships, in which either party can turn to the marketplace and shift to different business partners at will, a practice usually associated with Western manufacturers.
According to the passage, the advice referred to in the highlighted text was a response to which of the following?
(A) A recent decrease in the number of available suppliers within the United States automobile industry
(B) A debate within Western management circles during the past decade regarding the value of strategic partnerships
(C) The success of certain European automobile manufacturers that have adopted strategic partnerships
(D) An increase in demand over the past decade for automobiles made by Western manufacturers
(E) Research comparing Japanese business practices with those of other nations
---------------------------------
#RC#3 (P1 - 3)#B#300
In recent years, Western business managers have been heeding the exhortations of business journalists and academics to move their companies toward long-term, collaborative "strategic partnerships" with their external business partners (e.g., suppliers). The experts' advice comes as a natural reaction to numerous studies conducted during the past decade that compared Japanese production and supply practices with those of the rest of the world. The link between <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker</span></strong> and its effective management of its suppliers, for example, has led to an unquestioning belief within Western management circles in the value of strategic partnerships. Indeed, in the automobile sector all three United States manufacturers and most of their European competitors have launched programs to reduce their total number of suppliers and move toward having strategic partnerships with a few.<br><br>However, new research concerning supplier relationships in various industries demonstrates that the widespread assumption of Western managers and business consultants that Japanese firms manage their suppliers primarily through strategic partnerships is unjustified. Not only do Japanese firms appear to conduct a far smaller proportion of their business through strategic partnerships than is commonly believed, but they also make extensive use of "market-exchange" relationships, in which either party can turn to the marketplace and shift to different business partners at will, a practice usually associated with Western manufacturers.
The author mentions "the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker" most probably in order to
(A) demonstrate some of the possible reasons for the success of a certain business practice
(B) cite a specific case that has convinced Western business experts of the value of a certain business practice
(C) describe specific steps taken by Western automakers that have enabled them to compete more successfully in a global market
(D) introduce a paradox about the effect of a certain business practice in Japan
(E) indicate the need for Western managers to change their relationships with their external business partners
---------------------------------
#RC#4 (P1 - 4)#E#400
In recent years, Western business managers have been heeding the exhortations of business journalists and academics to move their companies toward long-term, collaborative "strategic partnerships" with their external business partners (e.g., suppliers). The experts' advice comes as a natural reaction to numerous studies conducted during the past decade that compared Japanese production and supply practices with those of the rest of the world. The link between the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker and its effective management of its suppliers, for example, has led to an unquestioning belief within Western management circles in the value of strategic partnerships. Indeed, in the automobile sector all three United States manufacturers and most of their European competitors have launched programs to reduce their total number of suppliers and move toward having strategic partnerships with a few.<br><br>However, new research concerning supplier relationships in various industries demonstrates that the widespread assumption of Western managers and business consultants that Japanese firms manage their suppliers primarily through strategic partnerships is unjustified. Not only do Japanese firms appear to conduct a far smaller proportion of their business through strategic partnerships than is commonly believed, but they also make extensive use of "market-exchange" relationships, in which either party can turn to the marketplace and shift to different business partners at will, <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>a practice</span></strong> usually associated with Western manufacturers.
Which of the following is most clearly an example of the practice referred to in the last sentence of the passage?
(A) A department store chain that employs a single buyer to procure all the small appliances to be sold in its stores
(B) An automobile manufacturer that has used the same supplier of a particular axle component for several years in a row
(C) A hospital that contracts only with union personnel to staff its nonmedical positions
(D) A municipal government that decides to cancel its contract with a waste disposal company and instead hire its own staff to perform that function
(E) A corporation that changes the food-service supplier for its corporate headquarters several times over a five-year period as part of a cost-cutting campaign.
---------------------------------
#RC#5 (P1 - 5)#D#500
In recent years, Western business managers have been heeding the exhortations of business journalists and academics to move their companies toward long-term, collaborative "strategic partnerships" with their external business partners (e.g., suppliers). The experts' advice comes as a natural reaction to numerous studies conducted during the past decade that compared Japanese production and supply practices with those of the rest of the world. The link between the success of a certain well-known Japanese automaker and its effective management of its suppliers, for example, has led to an unquestioning belief within Western management circles in the value of strategic partnerships. Indeed, in the automobile sector all three United States manufacturers and most of their European competitors have launched programs to reduce their total number of suppliers and move toward having strategic partnerships with a few.<br><br>However, <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>new research</span></strong> concerning supplier relationships in various industries demonstrates that the widespread assumption of Western managers and business consultants that Japanese firms manage their suppliers primarily through strategic partnerships is unjustified. Not only do Japanese firms appear to conduct a far smaller proportion of their business through strategic partnerships than is commonly believed, but they also make extensive use of "market-exchange" relationships, in which either party can turn to the marketplace and shift to different business partners at will, a practice usually associated with Western manufacturers.
Which of the following is cited in the passage as evidence supporting the author's claim about what the new research referred to in line 20 demonstrates?
(A) The belief within Western management circles regarding the extent to which Japanese firms rely on strategic partnerships
(B) The surprising number of European and United States businesses that have strategic partnerships with their suppliers
(C) The response of Western automobile manufacturers to the advice that they adopt strategic partnerships with their suppliers
(D) The prevalence of “market-exchange” relationships between Japanese firms and their suppliers
(E) The success of a particular Japanese automobile manufacturer that favors strategic partnerships with its suppliers
---------------------------------
#RC#6 (P2 - 1)#C#600
In corporate purchasing, competitive scrutiny is typically limited to suppliers of items that are directly related to end products. With “indirect” purchases (such as computers, advertising, and legal services), which are not directly related to production, corporations often favor “supplier partnerships” (arrangements in which the purchaser forgoes the right to pursue alternative suppliers), which can inappropriately shelter suppliers from rigorous competitive scrutiny that might afford the purchaser economic leverage. There are two independent variables—availability of alternatives and ease of changing suppliers—that companies should use to evaluate the feasibility of subjecting suppliers of indirect purchases to competitive scrutiny. This can create four possible situations.<br><br>In Type 1 situations, there are many alternatives and change is relatively easy. Open pursuit of alternatives—by frequent competitive bidding, if possible—will likely yield the best results. In Type 2 situations, where there are many alternatives but change is difficult—as for providers of employee health-care benefits—it is important to continuously test the market and use the results to secure concessions from existing suppliers. Alternatives provide a credible threat to suppliers, even if the ability to switch is constrained. In Type 3 situations, there are few alternatives, but the ability to switch without difficulty creates a threat that companies can use to negotiate concessions from existing suppliers. In Type 4 situations, where there are few alternatives and change is difficult, partnerships may be unavoidable.
Which of the following best describes the relation of the second paragraph to the first?
(A) The second paragraph offers proof of an assertion made in the first paragraph. 
(B) The second paragraph provides an explanation for the occurrence of a situation described in the first paragraph. 
(C) The second paragraph discusses the application of a strategy proposed in the first paragraph. 
(D) The second paragraph examines the scope of a problem presented in the first paragraph. 
(E) The second paragraph discusses the contradictions inherent in a relationship described in the first paragraph. 
---------------------------------
#RC#7 (P2 - 2)#B#700
In corporate purchasing, competitive scrutiny is typically limited to suppliers of items that are directly related to end products. With “indirect” purchases (such as computers, advertising, and legal services), which are not directly related to production, corporations often favor “supplier partnerships” (arrangements in which the purchaser forgoes the right to pursue alternative suppliers), which can inappropriately shelter suppliers from rigorous competitive scrutiny that might afford the purchaser economic leverage. There are two independent variables—availability of alternatives and ease of changing suppliers—that companies should use to evaluate the feasibility of subjecting suppliers of indirect purchases to competitive scrutiny. This can create four possible situations.<br><br>In Type 1 situations, there are many alternatives and change is relatively easy. Open pursuit of alternatives—by frequent competitive bidding, if possible—will likely yield the best results. In Type 2 situations, where there are many alternatives but change is difficult—as for providers of employee health-care benefits—it is important to continuously test the market and use the results to secure concessions from existing suppliers. Alternatives provide a credible threat to suppliers, even if the ability to switch is constrained. In Type 3 situations, there are few alternatives, but the ability to switch without difficulty creates a threat that companies can use to negotiate concessions from existing suppliers. In Type 4 situations, where there are few alternatives and change is difficult, partnerships may be unavoidable.
Which of the following can be inferred about supplier partnerships, as they are described in the passage?
(A) They cannot be sustained unless the goods or services provided are available from a large number of suppliers.
(B) They can result in purchasers paying more for goods and services than they would in a competitive-bidding situation.
(C) They typically are instituted at the urging of the supplier rather than the purchaser.
(D) They are not feasible when the goods or services provided are directly related to the purchasers' end products.
(E) They are least appropriate when the purchasers' ability to change suppliers is limited.
---------------------------------
#RC#8 (P2 - 3)#D#800
In corporate purchasing, competitive scrutiny is typically limited to suppliers of items that are directly related to end products. With “indirect” purchases (such as computers, advertising, and legal services), which are not directly related to production, corporations often favor “supplier partnerships” (arrangements in which the purchaser forgoes the right to pursue alternative suppliers), which can inappropriately shelter suppliers from rigorous competitive scrutiny that might afford the purchaser economic leverage. There are two independent variables—availability of alternatives and ease of changing suppliers—that companies should use to evaluate the feasibility of subjecting suppliers of indirect purchases to competitive scrutiny. This can create four possible situations.<br><br>In Type 1 situations, there are many alternatives and change is relatively easy. Open pursuit of alternatives—by frequent competitive bidding, if possible—will likely yield the best results. In Type 2 situations, where there are many alternatives but change is difficult—as for providers of employee health-care benefits—it is important to continuously test the market and use the results to secure concessions from existing suppliers. Alternatives provide a credible threat to suppliers, even if the ability to switch is constrained. In Type 3 situations, there are few alternatives, but the ability to switch without difficulty creates a threat that companies can use to negotiate concessions from existing suppliers. In Type 4 situations, where there are few alternatives and change is difficult, partnerships may be unavoidable.
According to the passage, which of the following factors distinguishes an indirect purchase from other purchases?
(A) The ability of the purchasing company to subject potential suppliers of the purchased item to competitive scrutiny
(B) The number of suppliers of the purchased item available to the purchasing company
(C) The methods of negotiation that are available to the purchasing company
(D) The relationship of the purchased item to the purchasing company's end product
(E) The degree of importance of the purchased item in the purchasing company's business operation
---------------------------------
#RC#9 (P2 - 4)#C#900
In corporate purchasing, competitive scrutiny is typically limited to suppliers of items that are directly related to end products. With “indirect” purchases (such as computers, advertising, and legal services), which are not directly related to production, corporations often favor “supplier partnerships” (arrangements in which the purchaser forgoes the right to pursue alternative suppliers), which can inappropriately shelter suppliers from rigorous competitive scrutiny that might afford the purchaser economic leverage. There are two independent variables—availability of alternatives and ease of changing suppliers—that companies should use to evaluate the feasibility of subjecting suppliers of indirect purchases to competitive scrutiny. This can create four possible situations.<br><br>In Type 1 situations, there are many alternatives and change is relatively easy. Open pursuit of alternatives—by frequent competitive bidding, if possible—will likely yield the best results. In Type 2 situations, where there are many alternatives but change is difficult—as for providers of employee health-care benefits—it is important to continuously test the market and use the results to secure concessions from existing suppliers. Alternatives provide a credible threat to suppliers, even if the ability to switch is constrained. In Type 3 situations, there are few alternatives, but the ability to switch without difficulty creates a threat that companies can use to negotiate concessions from existing suppliers. In Type 4 situations, where there are few alternatives and change is difficult, partnerships may be unavoidable.
It can be inferred that the author of the passage would be most likely to make which of the following recommendations to a company purchasing health care benefits for its employees?
(A) Devise strategies for circumventing the obstacles to replacing the current provider of health care benefits.
(B) Obtain health care benefits from a provider that also provides other indirect products and services.
(C) Obtain bids from other providers of health care benefits in order to be in a position to negotiate a better deal with the current provider.
(D) Switch providers of health care benefits whenever a different provider offers a more competitive price.
(E) Acknowledge the difficulties involved in replacing the current provider of health care benefits and offer to form a partnership with the provider.
---------------------------------
#RC#10 (P2 - 5)#A#1000
In corporate purchasing, competitive scrutiny is typically limited to suppliers of items that are directly related to end products. With “indirect” purchases (such as computers, advertising, and legal services), which are not directly related to production, corporations often favor “supplier partnerships” (arrangements in which the purchaser forgoes the right to pursue alternative suppliers), which can inappropriately shelter suppliers from rigorous competitive scrutiny that might afford the purchaser economic leverage. There are two independent variables—availability of alternatives and ease of changing suppliers—that companies should use to evaluate the feasibility of subjecting suppliers of indirect purchases to competitive scrutiny. This can create four possible situations.<br><br>In Type 1 situations, there are many alternatives and change is relatively easy. Open pursuit of alternatives—by frequent competitive bidding, if possible—will likely yield the best results. In Type 2 situations, where there are many alternatives but change is difficult—as for providers of employee health-care benefits—it is important to continuously test the market and use the results to secure concessions from existing suppliers. Alternatives provide a credible threat to suppliers, even if the ability to switch is constrained. In Type 3 situations, there are few alternatives, but the ability to switch without difficulty creates a threat that companies can use to negotiate concessions from existing suppliers. In Type 4 situations, where there are few alternatives and change is difficult, partnerships may be unavoidable.
Which of the following is one difference between Type 2 situations and Type 4 situations, as they are described in the passage?
(A) The number of alternative suppliers available to the purchaser
(B) The most effective approach for the purchaser to use in obtaining competitive bids from potential suppliers
(C) The degree of difficulty the purchaser encounters when changing suppliers
(D) The frequency with which each type of situation occurs in a typical business environment
(E) The likelihood that any given purchase will be an indirect purchase
---------------------------------
#RC#11 (P3 - 1)#D#1100
Carotenoids, a family of natural pigments, form an important part of the colorful signals used by many animals. Animals acquire carotenoids either directly (from the plants and algae that produce them) or indirectly (by eating insects) and store them in a variety of tissues. Studies of several animal species have shown that when choosing mates, females prefer males with brighter carotenoid-based coloration. Owens and Olson hypothesize that the presence of carotenoids, as signaled by coloration, would be meaningful in the context of mate selection if carotenoids were either rare or required for health. The conventional view is that carotenoids are meaningful because they are rare: healthier males can forage for more of the pigments than can their inferior counterparts. Although this may be true, there is growing evidence that carotenoids are meaningful also because they are required: they are used by the immune system and for detoxification processes that are important for maintaining health. It may be that males can use scarce carotenoids either for immune defense and detoxification or for attracting females. Males that are more susceptible to disease and parasites will have to use their carotenoids to boost their immune systems, whereas males that are genetically resistant will use fewer carotenoids for fighting disease and will advertise this by using the pigments for flashy display instead.
According to the “conventional view” referred to in line 13 of the passage, brighter carotenoid-based coloration in certain species suggests that an individual
(A) lives in a habitat rich in carotenoid-bearing plants and insects
(B) has efficient detoxification processes
(C) has a superior immune system
(D) possesses superior foraging capacity
(E) is currently capable of reproducing
---------------------------------
#RC#12 (P3 - 2)#C#1200
Carotenoids, a family of natural pigments, form an important part of the colorful signals used by many animals. Animals acquire carotenoids either directly (from the plants and algae that produce them) or indirectly (by eating insects) and store them in a variety of tissues. Studies of several animal species have shown that when choosing mates, females prefer males with brighter carotenoid-based coloration. Owens and Olson hypothesize that the presence of carotenoids, as signaled by coloration, would be meaningful in the context of mate selection if carotenoids were either rare or required for health. The conventional view is that carotenoids are meaningful because they are rare: healthier males can forage for more of the pigments than can their inferior counterparts. Although this may be true, there is growing evidence that carotenoids are meaningful also because they are required: they are used by the immune system and for detoxification processes that are important for maintaining health. It may be that males can use scarce carotenoids either for immune defense and detoxification or for attracting females. Males that are more susceptible to disease and parasites will have to use their carotenoids to boost their immune systems, whereas males that are genetically resistant will use fewer carotenoids for fighting disease and will advertise this by using the pigments for flashy display instead.
The idea that carotenoid-based coloration is significant partly because carotenoids are required for health suggests that a lack of bright coloration in a male is most likely to indicate which of the following?
(A) Inefficient detoxification processes
(B) Immunity to parasite infestation
(C) Low genetic resistance to disease
(D) Lack of interest in mating
(E) Lack of carotenoid-storing tissues
---------------------------------
#RC#13 (P3 - 3)#E#1300
Carotenoids, a family of natural pigments, form an important part of the colorful signals used by many animals. Animals acquire carotenoids either directly (from the plants and algae that produce them) or indirectly (by eating insects) and store them in a variety of tissues. Studies of several animal species have shown that when choosing mates, females prefer males with brighter carotenoid-based coloration. Owens and Olson hypothesize that the presence of carotenoids, as signaled by coloration, would be meaningful in the context of mate selection if carotenoids were either rare or required for health. The conventional view is that carotenoids are meaningful because they are rare: healthier males can forage for more of the pigments than can their inferior counterparts. Although this may be true, there is growing evidence that carotenoids are meaningful also because they are required: they are used by the immune system and for detoxification processes that are important for maintaining health. It may be that males can use scarce carotenoids either for immune defense and detoxification or for attracting females. Males that are more susceptible to disease and parasites will have to use their carotenoids to boost their immune systems, whereas males that are genetically resistant will use fewer carotenoids for fighting disease and will advertise this by using the pigments for flashy display instead.
The passage suggests that relatively bright carotenoid-based coloration is a signal of which of the following characteristics in males of certain animal species?
(A) Readiness for mating behavior
(B) Ability to fight
(C) Particular feeding preferences
(D) Recovery from parasite infestation
(E) Fitness as a mate
---------------------------------
#RC#14 (P3 - 4)#A#1400
Carotenoids, a family of natural pigments, form an important part of the colorful signals used by many animals. Animals acquire carotenoids either directly (from the plants and algae that produce them) or indirectly (by eating insects) and store them in a variety of tissues. Studies of several animal species have shown that when choosing mates, females prefer males with brighter carotenoid-based coloration. Owens and Olson hypothesize that the presence of carotenoids, as signaled by coloration, would be meaningful in the context of mate selection if carotenoids were either rare or required for health. The conventional view is that carotenoids are meaningful because they are rare: healthier males can forage for more of the pigments than can their inferior counterparts. Although this may be true, there is growing evidence that carotenoids are meaningful also because they are required: they are used by the immune system and for detoxification processes that are important for maintaining health. It may be that males can use scarce carotenoids either for immune defense and detoxification or for attracting females. Males that are more susceptible to disease and parasites will have to use their carotenoids to boost their immune systems, whereas males that are genetically resistant will use fewer carotenoids for fighting disease and will advertise this by using the pigments for flashy display instead.
The passage implies which of the following about the insects from which animals acquire carotenoids?
(A) They do not produce carotenoids themselves.
(B) They use carotenoids primarily for coloration.
(C) They maintain constant levels of carotenoids in their tissues.
(D) They are unable to use carotenoids to boost their immune system.
(E) They are available in greater abundance than are carotenoid-bearing plants.
---------------------------------
#RC#15 (P3 - 5)#C#1500
Carotenoids, a family of natural pigments, form an important part of the colorful signals used by many animals. Animals acquire carotenoids either directly (from the plants and algae that produce them) or indirectly (by eating insects) and store them in a variety of tissues. Studies of several animal species have shown that when choosing mates, females prefer males with brighter carotenoid-based coloration. Owens and Olson hypothesize that the presence of carotenoids, as signaled by coloration, would be meaningful in the context of mate selection if carotenoids were either rare or required for health. The conventional view is that carotenoids are meaningful because they are rare: healthier males can forage for more of the pigments than can their inferior counterparts. Although this may be true, there is growing evidence that carotenoids are meaningful also because they are required: they are used by the immune system and for detoxification processes that are important for maintaining health. It may be that males can use scarce carotenoids either for immune defense and detoxification or for attracting females. Males that are more susceptible to disease and parasites will have to use their carotenoids to boost their immune systems, whereas males that are genetically resistant will use fewer carotenoids for fighting disease and will advertise this by using the pigments for flashy display instead.
Information in the passage suggests that which of the following is true of carotenoids that a male animal uses for detoxification processes?
(A) They were not acquired directly from plants and algae.
(B) They cannot be replenished through foraging.
(C) They cannot be used simultaneously to brighten coloration.
(D) They do not affect the animal's susceptibility to parasites.
(E) They increase the chances that the animal will be selected as a mate.
---------------------------------
#RC#16 (P4 - 1)#E#1600
Linda Kerber argued in the mid-1980’s that after the American Revolution (1775-1783), an ideology of “republican motherhood” resulted in a surge of educational opportunities for women in the United States. Kerber maintained that the leaders of the new nation wanted women to be educated in order to raise politically virtuous sons. A virtuous citizenry was considered essential to the success of the country’s republican form of government; virtue was to be instilled not only by churches and schools, but by families, where the mother’s role was crucial. Thus, according to Kerber, motherhood became pivotal to the fate of the republic, providing justification for an unprecedented attention to female education.<br><br>Introduction of the republican motherhood thesis dramatically changed historiography. Prior to Kerber’s work, educational historians barely mentioned women and girls; Thomas Woody’s 1929 work is the notable exception. Examining newspaper advertisements for academies, Woody found that educational opportunities increased for both girls and boys around 1750. Pointing to “An Essay on Woman” (1753) as reflecting a shift in view, Woody also claimed that practical education for females had many advocates before the Revolution. Woody’s evidence challenges the notion that the Revolution changed attitudes regarding female education, although it may have accelerated earlier trends. Historians’ reliance on Kerber’s “republican motherhood” thesis may have obscured the presence of these trends, making it difficult to determine to what extent the Revolution really changed women’s lives.
According to the passage, within the field of educational history, Thomas Woody’s 1929 work was
(A) innovative because it relied on newspaper advertisements as evidence
(B) exceptional in that it concentrated on the period before the American Revolution
(C) unusual in that it focused on educational attitudes rather than on educational practices
(D) controversial in its claims regarding educational opportunities for boys
(E) atypical in that it examined the education of girls
---------------------------------
#RC#17 (P4 - 2)#C#1700
Linda Kerber argued in the mid-1980’s that after the American Revolution (1775-1783), an ideology of “republican motherhood” resulted in a surge of educational opportunities for women in the United States. Kerber maintained that the leaders of the new nation wanted women to be educated in order to raise politically virtuous sons. A virtuous citizenry was considered essential to the success of the country’s republican form of government; virtue was to be instilled not only by churches and schools, but by families, where the mother’s role was crucial. Thus, according to Kerber, motherhood became pivotal to the fate of the republic, providing justification for an unprecedented attention to female education.<br><br>Introduction of the republican motherhood thesis dramatically changed historiography. Prior to Kerber’s work, educational historians barely mentioned women and girls; Thomas Woody’s 1929 work is the notable exception. Examining newspaper advertisements for academies, Woody found that educational opportunities increased for both girls and boys around 1750. Pointing to “An Essay on Woman” (1753) as reflecting a shift in view, Woody also claimed that practical education for females had many advocates before the Revolution. Woody’s evidence challenges the notion that the Revolution changed attitudes regarding female education, although it may have accelerated earlier trends. Historians’ reliance on Kerber’s “republican motherhood” thesis may have obscured the presence of these trends, making it difficult to determine to what extent the Revolution really changed women’s lives.
According to the passage, Kerber argued that political leaders thought that the form of government adopted by the United States after the American Revolution depended on which of the following for its success?
(A) Women assuming the sole responsibility for instilling political virtue in children
(B) Girls becoming the primary focus of a reformed educational system that emphasized political virtue
(C) The family serving as one of the primary means by which children were imbued with political virtue
(D) The family assuming many of the functions previously performed by schools and churches
(E) Men and women assuming equal responsibility for the management of schools, churches, and the family
---------------------------------
#RC#18 (P4 - 3)#B#1800
Linda Kerber argued in the mid-1980’s that after the American Revolution (1775-1783), an ideology of “republican motherhood” resulted in a surge of educational opportunities for women in the United States. Kerber maintained that the leaders of the new nation wanted women to be educated in order to raise politically virtuous sons. A virtuous citizenry was considered essential to the success of the country’s republican form of government; virtue was to be instilled not only by churches and schools, but by families, where the mother’s role was crucial. Thus, according to Kerber, motherhood became pivotal to the fate of the republic, providing justification for an unprecedented attention to female education.<br><br>Introduction of the republican motherhood thesis dramatically changed historiography. Prior to Kerber’s work, educational historians barely mentioned women and girls; Thomas Woody’s 1929 work is the notable exception. Examining newspaper advertisements for academies, Woody found that educational opportunities increased for both girls and boys around 1750. Pointing to “An Essay on Woman” (1753) as reflecting a shift in view, Woody also claimed that practical education for females had many advocates before the Revolution. Woody’s evidence challenges the notion that the Revolution changed attitudes regarding female education, although it may have accelerated earlier trends. Historians’ reliance on Kerber’s “republican motherhood” thesis may have obscured the presence of these trends, making it difficult to determine to what extent the Revolution really changed women’s lives.
The passage suggests that, with regard to the history of women’s education in the United States, Kerber’s work differs from Woody’s primarily concerning which of the following?
(A) The extent to which women were interested in pursuing educational opportunities in the eighteenth century
(B) The extent of the support for educational opportunities for girls prior to the American Revolution
(C) The extent of public resistance to educational opportunities for women after the American Revolution
(D) Whether attitudes toward women’s educational opportunities changed during the eighteenth century
(E) Whether women needed to be educated in order to contribute to the success of a republican form of government
---------------------------------
#RC#19 (P4 - 4)#D#1900
Linda Kerber argued in the mid-1980’s that after the American Revolution (1775-1783), an ideology of “republican motherhood” resulted in a surge of educational opportunities for women in the United States. Kerber maintained that the leaders of the new nation wanted women to be educated in order to raise politically virtuous sons. A virtuous citizenry was considered essential to the success of the country’s republican form of government; virtue was to be instilled not only by churches and schools, but by families, where the mother’s role was crucial. Thus, according to Kerber, motherhood became pivotal to the fate of the republic, providing justification for an unprecedented attention to female education.<br><br>Introduction of the republican motherhood thesis dramatically changed historiography. Prior to Kerber’s work, educational historians barely mentioned women and girls; Thomas Woody’s 1929 work is the notable exception. Examining newspaper advertisements for academies, Woody found that educational opportunities increased for both girls and boys around 1750. Pointing to “An Essay on Woman” (1753) as reflecting a shift in view, Woody also claimed that practical education for females had many advocates before the Revolution. Woody’s evidence challenges the notion that the Revolution changed attitudes regarding female education, although it may have accelerated earlier trends. Historians’ reliance on Kerber’s “republican motherhood” thesis may have obscured the presence of these trends, making it difficult to determine to what extent the Revolution really changed women’s lives.
According to the passage, Kerber maintained that which of the following led to an increase in educational opportunities for women in the United States after the American Revolution?
(A) An unprecedented demand by women for greater educational opportunities in the decades following the Revolution
(B) A new political ideology calling for equality of opportunity between women and men in all aspects of life
(C) A belief that the American educational system could be reformed only if women participated more fully in that system
(D) A belief that women needed to be educated if they were to contribute to the success of the nation’s new form of government
(E) A recognition that women needed to be educated if they were to take an active role in the nation’s schools and churches
---------------------------------
#RC#20 (P4 - 5)#A#2000
Linda Kerber argued in the mid-1980’s that after the American Revolution (1775-1783), an ideology of “republican motherhood” resulted in a surge of educational opportunities for women in the United States. Kerber maintained that the leaders of the new nation wanted women to be educated in order to raise politically virtuous sons. A virtuous citizenry was considered essential to the success of the country’s republican form of government; virtue was to be instilled not only by churches and schools, but by families, where the mother’s role was crucial. Thus, according to Kerber, motherhood became pivotal to the fate of the republic, providing justification for an unprecedented attention to female education.<br><br>Introduction of the republican motherhood thesis dramatically changed historiography. Prior to Kerber’s work, educational historians barely mentioned women and girls; Thomas Woody’s 1929 work is the notable exception. Examining newspaper advertisements for academies, Woody found that educational opportunities increased for both girls and boys around 1750. Pointing to “An Essay on Woman” (1753) as reflecting a shift in view, Woody also claimed that practical education for females had many advocates before the Revolution. Woody’s evidence challenges the notion that the Revolution changed attitudes regarding female education, although it may have accelerated earlier trends. Historians’ reliance on Kerber’s “republican motherhood” thesis may have obscured the presence of these trends, making it difficult to determine to what extent the Revolution really changed women’s lives.
The passage suggests that Woody would have agreed with which of the following claims regarding “An Essay on Woman”?
(A) It expressed attitudes concerning women's education that were reflected in new educational opportunities for women after 1750.
(B) It persuaded educators to offer greater educational opportunities to women in the 1750s.
(C) It articulated ideas about women's education that would not be realized until after the American Revolution.
(D) It offered one of the most original arguments in favor of women's education in the United States in the eighteenth century.
(E) It presented views about women's education that were still controversial in Woody's own time.
---------------------------------
#CR#21#C#100
<strong>Plant scientists have used genetic engineering on seeds to produce crop plants that are highly resistant to insect damage.</strong> Unfortunately, the seeds themselves are quite expensive, and the plants require more fertilizer and water to grow well than normal ones. Accordingly, <strong>for most farmers the savings on pesticides would not compensate for the higher seed costs and the cost of additional fertilizer.</strong> However, since consumer demand for grains, fruits, and vegetables grown without the use of pesticides continues to rise, the use of genetically engineered seeds of this kind is likely to become widespread.<br><br>In the argument given, the two portions in boldface play which of the following roles?
(A) The first supplies a context for the argument; the second is the argument's main conclusion.
(B) The first introduces a development that the argument predicts will have a certain outcome; the second is a state of affairs that, according to the argument, contributes to bringing about that outcome.
(C) The first presents a development that the argument predicts will have a certain outcome; the second acknowledges a consideration that tends to weigh against that prediction.
(D) The first provides evidence to support a prediction that the argument seeks to defend; the second is that prediction.
(E) The first and the second each provide evidence to support the argument's main conclusion.
---------------------------------
#CR#22#A#100
Which of the following most logically completes the passage?<br><br>Leptin, a protein occurring naturally in the blood, appears to regulate how much fat the body carries by speeding up the metabolism and decreasing the appetite when the body has too much fat. Mice that do not naturally produce leptin have more fat than other mice, but lose fat rapidly when they are given leptin injections. Unfortunately, however, leptin cannot be used as a dietary supplement to control fat, since __________.
(A)	the digestive system breaks down proteins before they can enter the bloodstream
(B)	there are pharmaceuticals already available that can contribute to weight loss by speeding up the metabolism
(C)	people with unusually low levels of leptin in their blood tend to have a high percentage of body fat
(D)	the mice that do not naturally produce leptin were from a specially bred strain of mice
(E)	mice whose bodies did produce leptin also lost some of their body fat when given leptin injections
---------------------------------
#CR#23#D#100
More and more law firms specializing in corporate taxes are paid on a contingency-fee basis. Under this arrangement, if a case is won, the firm usually receives more than it would have received if it had been paid on the alternate hourly rate basis. If the case is lost, the firm receives nothing. Most firms are likely to make more under the contingency-fee arrangement.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would most strengthen the prediction above?
(A) Firms that work exclusively under the hourly rate arrangement spend, on average, fewer hours on cases that are won than on cases that are lost.
(B) Some litigation can last for years before any decision is reached, and, even then, the decision may be appealed.
(C) Firms under the contingency-fee arrangement still pay their employees on an hourly basis.
(D) Since the majority of firms specialize in certain kinds of cases, they are able to assess accurately their chances of winning each potential case.
(E) Firms working under the contingency-fee arrangement take in fewer cases per year than do firms working under the hourly rate arrangement.
---------------------------------
#CR#24#D#100
Enterprise Bank currently requires customers with checking accounts to maintain a minimum balance or pay a monthly fee. Enterprise plans to offer accounts with no monthly fee and no minimum-balance requirement; to cover their projected administrative costs of $3 per account per month they plan to charge $30 for overdrawing an account. Since each month on average slightly more than 10 percent of Enterprise's customers overdraw their accounts, bank officials predict the new accounts will generate a profit.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most strongly supports the bank officials’ prediction?
(A) Some of Enterprise Bank's current checking account customers are expected to switch to the new accounts once they are offered.
(B) One third of Enterprise Bank's revenues are currently derived from monthly fees tied to checking accounts.
(C) Many checking account customers who occasionally pay a fee for not maintaining a minimum balance in their account generally maintain a balance well above the minimum.
(D) Customers whose checking accounts do not have a minimum-balance requirement are more likely than others to overdraw their checking accounts.
(E) Customers whose checking accounts do not have a minimum-balance requirement are more likely than others to write checks for small amounts.
---------------------------------
#CR#25#B#100
Farmer: Worldwide, just three grain crops—rice, wheat, and corn—account for most human caloric intake. To maintain this level of caloric intake and also keep pace with global population growth, yields per acre from each of these crops will have to increase at least 1.5 percent every year, given that the supply of cultivated land is diminishing. Therefore, the government should increase funding for research into new ways to improve yields.<br><br>Which of the following is an assumption on which the farmer's argument depends?
(A) It is solely the government's responsibility to ensure that the amount of rice, wheat, and corn produced worldwide keeps pace with global population growth.
(B) Increasing government funding for research into new ways to improve the yields per acre of rice, wheat, and corn crops would help to increase total worldwide annual production of food from these crops.
(C) Increasing the yields per acre of rice, wheat, and corn is more important than increasing the yields per acre of other crops.
(D) Current levels of funding for research into ways of improving grain crop yields per acre have enabled grain crop yields per acre to increase by more than 1.5 percent per year worldwide.
(E) In coming decades, rice, wheat, and corn will become a minor part of human caloric intake, unless there is government-funded research to increase their yields per acre.
---------------------------------
#CR#26#E#100
A study compared a sample of Swedish people older than 75 who needed in-home assistance with a similar sample of Israeli people. The people in the two samples received both informal assistance, provided by family and friends, and formal assistance, professionally provided. Although Sweden and Israel have equally well-funded and comprehensive systems for providing formal assistance, the study found that the people in the Swedish sample received more formal assistance, on average, than those in the Israeli sample.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, does most to explain the difference that the study found?
(A) A companion study found that among children needing special in-home care, the amount of formal assistance they received was roughly the same in Sweden as in Israel.
(B) More Swedish than Israeli people older than 75 live in rural areas where formal assistance services are sparse or nonexistent.
(C) Although in both Sweden and Israel much of the funding for formal assistance ultimately comes from the central government, the local structures through which assistance is delivered are different in the two countries.
(D) In recent decades, the increase in life expectancy of someone who is 75 years old has been greater in Israel than in Sweden.
(E) In Israel, people older than 75 tend to live with their children, whereas in Sweden people of that age tend to live alone.
---------------------------------
#CR#27#B#100
Film Director: It is true that certain characters and plot twists in my newly released film The Big Heist are strikingly similar to characters and plot twists in Thieves, a movie that came out last year. Based on these similarities, the film studio that produced Thieves is now accusing me of taking ideas from that film. The accusation is clearly without merit. All production work on The Big Heist was actually completed months before Thieves was released.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, provides the strongest support for the director's rejection of the accusation?
(A) Before Thieves began production, its script had been circulating for several years among various film studios, including the studio that produced The Big Heist.
(B) The characters and plot twists that are most similar in the two films have close parallels in many earlier films of the same genre.
(C) The film studio that produced Thieves seldom produces films in this genre.
(D) The director of Thieves worked with the director of The Big Heist on several earlier projects.
(E) The time it took to produce The Big Heist was considerably shorter than the time it took to produce Thieves.
---------------------------------
#CR#28#D#100
Economist: Tropicorp, which constantly seeks profitable investment opportunities, has been buying and clearing sections of tropical forest for cattle ranching, although pastures newly created there become useless for grazing after just a few years. The company has not gone into rubber tapping, even though greater profits can be made from rubber tapping, which leaves the forest intact. Thus, some environmentalists argue that <strong>Tropicorp's actions do not serve even its own economic interest.</strong> However, the initial investment required for a successful rubber-tapping operation is larger than that needed for a cattle ranch; there is a shortage of workers employable in rubber-tapping operations; and taxes are higher on profits from rubber tapping than on profits from cattle ranching. Consequently, <strong>the environmentalists' conclusion is probably wrong.</strong><br><br>In the economist's argument, the two boldface portions play which of the following roles?
(A) The first supports the conclusion of the economist's argument; the second calls that conclusion into question.
(B) The first states the conclusion of the economist's argument; the second supports that conclusion.
(C) The first supports the conclusion of the environmentalists' argument; the second states that conclusion.
(D) The first states the conclusion of the environmentalists' argument; the second states the conclusion of the economist's argument.
(E) Each supports the conclusion of the economist's argument.
---------------------------------
#CR#29#B#100
Boreal owls range over a much larger area than do other owls of similar size. Scientists have hypothesized that <strong>it is scarcity of prey that leads the owls to range so widely.</strong> This hypothesis would be hard to confirm directly, since it is not possible to produce a sufficiently accurate count of the populations of small mammals inhabiting the forests where boreal owls live. Careful study of owl behavior has, however, shown that <strong>boreal owls do range over larger areas when they live in regions where food of the sort eaten by small mammals is comparatively sparse.</strong> This indicates that the scientists’ hypothesis is not sheer speculation.<br><br>In the argument given, the two boldfaced portions play which of the following roles?
(A) The first presents an explanatory hypothesis; the second states the main conclusion of the argument.
(B) The first presents an explanatory hypothesis; the second presents evidence tending to support this hypothesis.
(C) The first presents an explanatory hypothesis; the second presents evidence to support an alternative explanation.
(D) The first describes a position that the argument opposes; the second presents evidence to undermine the support for the position being opposed.
(E) The first describes a position that the argument opposes; the second states the main conclusion of the argument.
---------------------------------
#CR#30#D#100
Last year a record number of new manufacturing jobs were created. Will this year bring another record? Well, any new manufacturing job is created either within an existing company or by the start-up of a new company. <strong>Within existing firms, new jobs have been created this year at well below last year's record pace.</strong> At the same time, there is considerable evidence that the number of new companies starting up will be no higher this year than it was last year and <strong>there is no reason to think that the new companies starting up this year will create more jobs per company than did last year's start-ups.</strong> So clearly, the number of new jobs created this year will fall short of last year's record.<br><br>In the argument given, the two portions in boldface play which of the following roles?
(A) The first is a claim that the argument challenges; the second is an explicit assumption on which that challenge is based.
(B) The first is a claim that the argument challenges; the second is a judgment advanced in support of the main conclusion of the argument.
(C) The first provides evidence in support of the main conclusion of the argument; the second is an objection that has been raised against that main conclusion.
(D) The first provides evidence in support of the main conclusion of the argument; the second is a judgment advanced in support of that main conclusion.
(E) The first and the second are each claims that have been advanced in support of a position that the argument opposes.
---------------------------------
#CR#31#B#100
Enforcement of local speed limits through police monitoring has proven unsuccessful in the town of Ardane. In many nearby towns, speed humps (raised areas of pavement placed across residential streets, about 300 feet apart) have reduced traffic speeds on residential streets by 20 to 25 percent. In order to reduce traffic speed and thereby enhance safety in residential neighborhoods, Ardane's transportation commission plans to install multiple speed humps in those neighborhoods.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, identifies a potentially serious drawback to the plan for installing speed humps in Ardane?
(A) On residential streets without speed humps, many vehicles travel at speeds more than 25 percent above the posted speed limit.
(B) Because of their high weight, emergency vehicles such as fire trucks and ambulances must slow almost to a stop at speed humps.
(C) The residential speed limit in Ardane is higher than that of the nearby towns where speed humps were installed.
(D) Motorists who are not familiar with the streets in Ardane's residential districts would be likely to encounter the speed humps unawares unless warned by signs and painted indicators.
(E) Bicyclists generally prefer that speed humps be constructed so as to leave a space on the side of the road where bicycles can travel without going over the humps.
---------------------------------
#CR#32#A#100
A prominent investor who holds a large stake in the Burton Tool Company has recently claimed that the company is mismanaged, citing as evidence the company's failure to slow down production in response to a recent rise in its inventory of finished products. It is doubtful whether an investor's sniping at management can ever be anything other than counterproductive, but in this case, it is clearly not justified. It is true that <strong>an increased inventory of finished products often indicates that production is outstripping demand</strong>, but in Burton's case it indicates no such thing. Rather, <strong>the increase in inventory is entirely attributable to products that have already been assigned to orders received from customers.</strong><br><br>In the argument given, the two boldfaced portions play which of the following roles?
(A) The first states a generalization that underlies the position that the argument as a whole opposes; the second provides evidence to show that the generalization does not apply in the case at issue.
(B) The first states a generalization that underlies the position that the argument as a whole opposes; the second clarifies the meaning of a specific phrase as it is used in that generalization.
(C) The first provides evidence to support the conclusion of the argument as a whole; the second is evidence that has been used to support the position that the argument as a whole opposes.
(D) The first provides evidence to support the conclusion of the argument as a whole; the second states that conclusion.
(E) The first and the second each provide evidence against the position that the argument as a whole opposes.
---------------------------------
#CR#33#B#200
A company has developed a new sensing device that, according to the company's claims, detects weak, ultralow-frequency electromagnetic signals associated with a beating heart. These signals, which pass through almost any physical obstruction, are purportedly detected by the device even at significant distances. Therefore, if the company's claims are true, their device will radically improve emergency teams' ability to locate quickly people who are trapped within the wreckage of collapsed buildings.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the argument?
(A) People trapped within the wreckage of collapsed buildings usually have serious injuries that require prompt medical treatment.
(B) The device gives a distinctive reading when the signals it detects come from human beings rather than from any other living beings.
(C) Most people who have survived after being trapped in collapsed buildings were rescued within two hours of the building's collapse.
(D) Ultralow-frequency signals are not the only electromagnetic signals that can pass through almost any physical obstruction.
(E) Extensive training is required in order to operate the device effectively.
---------------------------------
#CR#34#C#300
The city of Workney, in raising bus fares from $1.00 to $1.25, proposed that 18 fare tokens be sold for $20.00 to alleviate the extra burden of the fare increase on the city’s poor people. Critics suggested alternatively that 9 fare tokens be sold for $10.00, because a $20.00 outlay would be prohibitive for poor riders.<br><br>The alternative proposal depends on which of the following assumptions?
(A) Poor residents of Workney will continue to ride the buses in the same numbers despite the fare increase.
(B) Riders who are poor would be more likely to take advantage of the savings afforded by the 9-token offer than would riders who are not poor.
(C) The outlay of $10.00 for the purchase of 9 fare tokens would not be prohibitive for bus riders who are poor.
(D) The proposed fare increase is needed for the purchase of new buses for the city’s bus system.
(E) Fewer riders would regularly purchase 18 fare tokens at once than would purchase only 9 fare tokens at once
---------------------------------
#CR#35#C#400
In response to viral infection, the immune systems of mice typically produce antibodies that destroy the virus by binding to proteins on its surface. Mice infected with the herpesvirus generally develop keratitis, a degenerative disease affecting part of the eye. Since proteins on the surface of cells in this part of the eye closely resemble those on the herpesvirus surface, scientists hypothesize that these cases of keratitis are caused by antibodies to the herpesvirus.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to support the scientists’ reasoning?
(A) Other types of virus have surface proteins that closely resemble proteins found in various organs of mice.
(B) Mice that are infected with the herpesvirus but do not develop keratitis produce as many antibodies as infected mice that do develop keratitis.
(C) Mice infected with a new strain of the herpesvirus that has different surface proteins did not develop keratitis.
(D) Mice that have never been infected with the herpesvirus can sometimes develop keratitis.
(E) There are mice that are unable to form antibodies in response to herpes infections, and these mice contract herpes at roughly the same rate as other mice.
---------------------------------
#CR#36#E#500
Last year a record number of new manufacturing jobs were created. Will this year bring another record? <strong>Well, a new manufacturing job is created either within an existing company or by the start-up of a new company.</strong> Within existing firms, new jobs have been created this year at well below last year’s record pace. At the same time, there is considerable evidence that the number of new companies starting up will be no higher this year than it was last year and <strong>there is no reason to think that new companies starting up this year will create more jobs per company than did last year's start-ups.</strong> Clearly, it can be concluded that the number of new jobs created this year will fall short of last year’s record.<br><br>In the argument given, the two portions in boldface play which of the following roles?
(A) The first provides evidence in support of the main conclusion of the argument; the second is a claim that the argument challenges.
(B) The first is a generalization that the argument seeks to establish; the second is a conclusion that the argument draws in order to support that generalization.
(C) The first is a generalization that the argument seeks to establish; the second is a judgment that has been advanced in order to challenge that generalization.
(D) The first is presented as obvious truth on which the argument is based; the second is a claim that has been advanced in support of a position that the argument opposes.
(E) The first is presented as obvious truth on which the argument is based; the second is a judgment advanced in support of the main conclusion of the argument.
---------------------------------
#CR#37#E#600
Biologists with a predilection for theory have tried—and largely failed—to define what it is that makes something a living thing. Organisms take in energy-providing materials and excrete waste products, but so do automobiles. Living things replicate and take part in evolution, but so do some computer programs. We must be open to the possibility that there are living things on other planets. Therefore, we will not be successful in defining what it is that makes something a living thing merely by examining living things on Earth—the only ones we know. Trying to do so is analogous to trying to specify _______.<br><br>Which of the following most logically completes the passage?
(A) the laws of physics by using pure mathematics
(B) what a fish is by listing its chemical components
(C) what an animal is by examining a plant
(D) what a machine is by examining a sketch of it
(E) what a mammal is by examining a zebra
---------------------------------
#CR#38#C#700
Sammy: For my arthritis, I am going to try my aunt's diet: large amounts of wheat germ and garlic. She was able to move more easily right after she started that diet.<br><br>Pat: When my brother began that diet, his arthritis got worse. But he has been doing much better since he stopped eating vegetables in the nightshade family, such as tomatoes and peppers.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would provide a basis for explaining the fact that Sammy's aunt and Pat's brother had contrasting experiences with the same diet?
(A) A change in diet, regardless of the nature of the change, frequently brings temporary relief from arthritis symptoms.
(B) The compounds in garlic that can lessen the symptoms of arthritis are also present in tomatoes and peppers.
(C) Arthritis is a chronic condition whose symptoms improve and worsen from time to time without regard to diet.
(D) In general, men are more likely to have their arthritis symptoms alleviated by avoiding vegetables in the nightshade family than are women.
(E) People who are closely related are more likely to experience the same result from adopting a particular diet than are people who are unrelated.
---------------------------------
#SC#39#A#100
According to some critics, watching television <span style="text-decoration: underline">not only undermines one's</span> ability to think critically but also impairs one's overall ability to perceive.
(A) not only undermines one's ability to think critically but also impairs one's
(B) not only undermines one's ability of critical thinking but also impairs the
(C) undermines not only one's ability to think critically but also impairs one's
(D) undermines not only one's ability of critical thinking but also impairs the
(E) undermines one's ability not only to think critically but also impairs one's
---------------------------------
#SC#40#B#100
In a speech before the Senate Banking Committee, the chairman of the Federal Reserve painted an optimistic picture of the economy, <span style="text-decoration: underline">suggesting to investors the central bank in the near future is not lowering interest rates</span>.
(A) suggesting to investors the central bank in the near future is not lowering interest rates
(B) suggesting to investors that the central bank would not lower interest rates in the near future
(C) which suggests that to investors in the near future interest rates will not be lowered by the central bank
(D) with the suggestion to investors in the near future that interest rates would not be lowered by the central bank
(E) with the suggestion to investors of interest rates not being lowered in the near future by the central bank
---------------------------------
#SC#41#D#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">As with ants, the elaborate social structure of termites includes a few individuals reproducing</span> and the rest serve the colony by tending juveniles, gathering food, building the nest, or battling intruders.
(A) As with ants, the elaborate social structure of termites includes a few individuals reproducing
(B) As do ants, termites have an elaborate social structure, which includes a few individuals to reproduce
(C) Just as with ants, termite social structure is elaborate, including a few individuals for reproducing
(D) Like ants, termites have an elaborate social structure in which a few individuals reproduce
(E) Like that of ants, the termite social structure is elaborate, including a few individuals that reproduce
---------------------------------
#SC#42#B#100
Travelers from Earth to <span style="text-decoration: underline">Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoiding large doses of radiation, plus contending</span> with the chemically reactive Martian soil, and perhaps even ward off contamination by Martian life-forms.
(A)	Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoiding large doses of radiation, plus contending
(B)	Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, contend
(C)	Mars, having to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, would also have to avoid large doses of radiation, plus contending
(D)	Mars, having to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, plus contend
(E)	Mars, who would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, contend with
---------------------------------
#SC#43#E#100
Heating oil and natural gas futures rose sharply yesterday, as long-term forecasts for much colder temperatures in key heating regions raised fears <span style="text-decoration: underline">of insufficient supplies capable of meeting</span> the demand this winter.
(A) of insufficient supplies capable of meeting
(B) of supplies that would be insufficient for meeting
(C) of insufficient supplies that are unable to meet
(D) that there would be supplies insufficient for meeting
(E) that supplies would be insufficient to meet
---------------------------------
#SC#44#E#100
Because it regarded the environmentalists as members of an out-of-state organization, the city council voted <span style="text-decoration: underline">that they are denied permission for participating</span> in the parade.
(A) that they are denied permission for participating
(B) that they be denied permission for participating
(C) denying them permission for participation
(D) the denial of permission that they participate
(E) to deny them permission to participate
---------------------------------
#SC#45#B#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">To estimate the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is a lack of a single yardstick that all distances can be measured by.</span>
(A) To estimate the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is a lack of a single yardstick that all distances can be measured by.
(B) Estimating the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is no single yardstick by which all distances can be measured.
(C) Because there is a lack of a single yardstick to measure all distances by, estimating the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem.
(D) A notoriously difficult problem is to estimate the expansion rate of the universe because a single yardstick is lacking by which all distances can be measured.
(E) It is a notoriously difficult problem to estimate the expansion rate of the universe because by no single yardstick can all distances be measured.
---------------------------------
#SC#46#B#100
The Commerce Department reported that the nation's economy grew at a brisk annual pace of 3.7 percent in the second quarter, but that while businesses were expanding their production, <span style="text-decoration: underline">unsold goods piled up on store shelves as consumer spending is slowed sharply</span>.
(A) unsold goods piled up on store shelves as consumer spending is slowed sharply
(B) unsold goods were piling up on store shelves as consumer spending slowed sharply
(C) unsold goods had piled up on store shelves with a sharp slowing of consumer spending
(D) consumer spending was slowing sharply, with the piling up of unsold goods on store shelves
(E) consumer spending has slowed sharply, with unsold goods piling up on store shelves
---------------------------------
#SC#47#E#100
Thomas Mann's novel Doctor Faustus offers <span style="text-decoration: underline">an examination not only of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but</span> also a skillfully navigated exploration of the major concerns of modernism.
(A) an examination not only of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but
(B) an examination not only about the difficulty of reconciling reason, will, and passion in any art form, and
(C) not only an examination of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion in any art form, and
(D) not only an examination about the difficulty with reconciling reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but
(E) not only an examination of the difficulty of reconciling reason, will, and passion in any art form, but
---------------------------------
#SC#48#C#100
According to a recent study, <span style="text-decoration: underline">retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children as</span> to receive it from them.
(A) retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children as
(B) retirees in the United States are four times as likely to give regular financial aid to their children as it is for them
(C) retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children than
(D) it is four times more likely for retirees in the United States to give regular financial aid to their children than they are
(E) it is four times as likely that retirees in the United States will give their children regular financial aid as they are
---------------------------------
#SC#49#A#100
Normally a bone becomes fossilized through the action of groundwater, <span style="text-decoration: underline">which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and replaces them</span> with minerals.
(A) which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and replaces them
(B) which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and those are replaced
(C) which permeates the bone, washing away its organic components, to be replaced
(D) permeating the bone, washing away its organic components, to be replaced
(E) permeating the bone, washing away its organic components and replacing them
---------------------------------
#SC#50#A#100
Over the past ten years cultivated sunflowers have become a major commercial crop, <span style="text-decoration: underline">second only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil</span>.
(A) second only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil
(B) second in importance to soybeans only as a source of vegetable oil
(C) being second in importance only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil
(D) which, as a source of vegetable oil, is only second to soybeans
(E) as a source of vegetable oil only second to soybeans
---------------------------------
#SC#51#E#100
In the 1940s popular magazines in the United States began to report on the private lives of persons from the entertainment industry, <span style="text-decoration: underline">in despite of the fact that they previously had featured individuals</span> in business and politics.
(A) in despite of the fact that they previously had featured individuals
(B) in spite of the fact previously that these publications featured articles on those
(C) whereas previously there were those individuals featured in articles
(D) whereas previously those individuals they featured were
(E) whereas previously these publications had featured articles on individuals
---------------------------------
#SC#52#B#100
Technically, “quicksand” is the term for sand <span style="text-decoration: underline">that is so saturated with water as to acquire a liquid's character</span>.
(A) that is so saturated with water as to acquire a liquid's character
(B) that is so saturated with water that it acquires the character of a liquid
(C) that is saturated with water enough to acquire liquid characteristics
(D) saturated enough with water so as to acquire the character of a liquid
(E) saturated with water so much as to acquire a liquid character
---------------------------------
#SC#53#E#100
Because many of Australia's marsupials, such as the koala, are cute and cuddly, as well as <span style="text-decoration: underline">being biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after</span> their discovery in the 1700s.
(A) being biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after
(B) being biologically different from North American marsupials, they attracted a lot of attention since
(C) biologically different than North American marsupials, they attracted a lot of attention since
(D) biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after
(E) biologically different from North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention since
---------------------------------
#SC#54#C#100
Many utilities obtain most of their electric power from large coal and nuclear operations at costs that are sometimes <span style="text-decoration: underline">two to three times higher as that of power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both</span> make use of waste heat and take advantage of the current abundance of natural gas.
(A) two to three times higher as that of power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both
(B) higher by two to three times as that from smaller, more efficient plants that both can
(C) two to three times higher than those for power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both
(D) between two to three times higher as those for power from smaller, more efficient plants that both can
(E) between two to three times higher than from smaller, more efficient plants that they can both
---------------------------------
#SC#55#E#100
When viewed from the window of a speeding train, <span style="text-decoration: underline">the speed with which nearby objects move seems faster than that of</span> more distant objects.
(A) the speed with which nearby objects move seems faster than that of
(B) the speed that nearby objects move seems faster than for
(C) the speed of nearby objects seems faster than
(D) nearby objects' speeds seem to be faster than those of
(E) nearby objects seem to move at a faster speed than do
---------------------------------
#SC#56#C#100
The final decades of the twentieth century <span style="text-decoration: underline">not only saw an explosion of the literary production among women, but there was also</span> an intense interest in the lives and works of women writers.
(A) not only saw an explosion of the literary production among women, but there was also
(B) not only saw an explosion of literary production in women, but there was also
(C) saw not only an explosion of literary production among women, but also
(D) saw not only an explosion of the literary production by women, but it also saw
(E) saw not only an explosion of literary production by women, but also saw
---------------------------------
#SC#57#C#100
The Eastern State Penitentiary was established in 1822 by reformers <span style="text-decoration: underline">advocating that prisoners be held in solitary confinement and hard labor so as to reform them</span>.
(A) advocating that prisoners be held in solitary confinement and hard labor so as to reform them
(B) who were advocating prisoners to be held in solitary confinement and hard labor for their reform
(C) advocating solitary confinement and hard labor as the means to reform prisoners
(D) who advocated solitary confinement and hard labor for the means of prisoner reform
(E) advocating as the means for prisoner reform solitary confinement and hard labor
---------------------------------
#SC#58#E#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Through experimenting designed to provide information that will ultimately prove</span> useful in the treatment of hereditary diseases, mice have received bone marrow transplants that give them a new gene.
(A) Through experimenting designed to provide information that will ultimately prove
(B) Through experiments designed to provide information ultimately proving
(C) In experimentation designed to provide information that ultimately proves
(D) In experimenting designed to provide information ultimately proving
(E) In experiments designed to provide information that will ultimately prove
---------------------------------
#SC#59#A#100
The United Parcel Service plans <span style="text-decoration: underline">to convert its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to</span> run on cleaner-burning natural gas.
(A) to convert its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to
(B) to convert its more than 2,000 trucks in the Los Angeles area that are powered by gasoline to
(C) on converting its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area that will
(D) for its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to convert to
(E) that its more than 2,000 trucks in the Los Angeles area that are powered by gasoline will convert to
---------------------------------
