####76####VR16
#RC#1 (P1-1)#C#
Human beings, born with a drive to explore and experiment, thrive on learning. Unfortunately, corporations are oriented predominantly toward controlling employees, not fostering their learning. Ironically, this orientation creates the very conditions that predestine employees to mediocre performances. Over time, superior performance requires superior learning, because long-term corporate survival depends on continually exploring new business and organizational opportunities that can create new sources of growth.<br><br>To survive in the future, corporations must become "learning organizations," enterprises that are constantly able to adapt and expand their capabilities. To accomplish this, corporations must change how they view employees. The<br><br>traditional view that a single charismatic leader should set the corporation's direction and make key decisions is rooted in an individualistic worldview. In an increasingly interdependent world, such a view is no longer viable. In learning organizations, thinking and acting are integrated at all job levels. Corporate leadership is shared, and leaders become designers, teachers, and stewards, roles requiring new skills: the ability to build shared vision, to reveal and challenge prevailing mental models, and to foster broader, more integrated patterns of thinking. In short, leaders in learning organizations are responsible for building organizations in which employees are continually learning new skills and expanding their capabilities to shape their future.
According to the passage, traditional corporate leaders differ from leaders in learning organizations in that former
(A)	Encourage employees to concentrate on developing a wide range of skills
(B)	Enable employees to recognize and confront dominant corporate models and to develop alternative models
(C)	Make important policy decisions alone and then require employees in the corporation to abide by those decisions
(D)	Instill confidence in employees because of their willingness to make risky decisions and accept their consequences
(E)	Are concerned with offering employees frequent advice and career guidance
---------------------------------
#RC#2 (P1-2)#C#
Human beings, born with a drive to explore and experiment, thrive on learning. Unfortunately, corporations are oriented predominantly toward controlling employees, not fostering their learning. Ironically, this orientation creates the very conditions that predestine employees to mediocre performances. Over time, superior performance requires superior learning, because long-term corporate survival depends on continually exploring new business and organizational opportunities that can create new sources of growth.<br><br>To survive in the future, corporations must become "learning organizations," enterprises that are constantly able to adapt and expand their capabilities. To accomplish this, corporations must change how they view employees. The<br><br>traditional view that a single charismatic leader should set the corporation's direction and make key decisions is rooted in an individualistic worldview. In an increasingly interdependent world, such a view is no longer viable. In learning organizations, thinking and acting are integrated at all job levels. Corporate leadership is shared, and leaders become designers, teachers, and stewards, roles requiring new skills: the ability to build shared vision, to reveal and challenge prevailing mental models, and to foster broader, more integrated patterns of thinking. In short, leaders in learning organizations are responsible for building organizations in which employees are continually learning new skills and expanding their capabilities to shape their future.
Which of the following best describes employees behavior encouraged within learning organizations, as such organizations are described in the passage?
(A)	Carefully defining one's job description and taking care to avoid deviation from it
(B)	Designing mentoring programs that train new employees to follow procedures that have been used fro many years
(C)	Concentrating one`s efforts on mastering one aspect of a complicated task
(D)	Studying an organizational problem, preparing a report, and submitting it to a corporate leader for approval
(E)	Analyzing a problem related to productivity , making a decision about a solution , and implementing that solution
---------------------------------
#RC#3 (P1-3)#C#
Human beings, born with a drive to explore and experiment, thrive on learning. Unfortunately, corporations are oriented predominantly toward controlling employees, not fostering their learning. Ironically, this orientation creates the very conditions that predestine employees to mediocre performances. Over time, superior performance requires superior learning, because long-term corporate survival depends on continually exploring new business and organizational opportunities that can create new sources of growth.<br><br>To survive in the future, corporations must become "learning organizations," enterprises that are constantly able to adapt and expand their capabilities. To accomplish this, corporations must change how they view employees. The<br><br>traditional view that a single charismatic leader should set the corporation's direction and make key decisions is rooted in an individualistic worldview. In an increasingly interdependent world, such a view is no longer viable. In learning organizations, thinking and acting are integrated at all job levels. Corporate leadership is shared, and leaders become designers, teachers, and stewards, roles requiring new skills: the ability to build shared vision, to reveal and challenge prevailing mental models, and to foster broader, more integrated patterns of thinking. In short, leaders in learning organizations are responsible for building organizations in which employees are continually learning new skills and expanding their capabilities to shape their future.
According to the author of the passage, corporate leaders of the future should do which of the following
(A)	They should encourage employees put long-term goals ahead of short-term profits
(B)	They should exercise more control over employees in order to constrain production costs
(C)	They should redefine incentives for employees' performance improvement
(D)	They should provide employees with opportunities to gain new skills and expand their capabilities
(E)	They should promote individual managers who are committed to established company practices
---------------------------------
#RC#4 (P1-4)#C#
Human beings, born with a drive to explore and experiment, thrive on learning. Unfortunately, corporations are oriented predominantly toward controlling employees, not fostering their learning. Ironically, this orientation creates the very conditions that predestine employees to mediocre performances. Over time, superior performance requires superior learning, because long-term corporate survival depends on continually exploring new business and organizational opportunities that can create new sources of growth.<br><br>To survive in the future, corporations must become "learning organizations," enterprises that are constantly able to adapt and expand their capabilities. To accomplish this, corporations must change how they view employees. The<br><br>traditional view that a single charismatic leader should set the corporation's direction and make key decisions is rooted in an individualistic worldview. In an increasingly interdependent world, such a view is no longer viable. In learning organizations, thinking and acting are integrated at all job levels. Corporate leadership is shared, and leaders become designers, teachers, and stewards, roles requiring new skills: the ability to build shared vision, to reveal and challenge prevailing mental models, and to foster broader, more integrated patterns of thinking. In short, leaders in learning organizations are responsible for building organizations in which employees are continually learning new skills and expanding their capabilities to shape their future.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A)	Endorse a traditional corporate structure
(B)	Introduce a new approach to corporate leadership and evaluate criticisms of it
(C)	Explain competing theories about management practices and reconcile them
(D)	Contrast two typical corporate organizational structures
(E)	Propose an alternative to a common corporate approach
---------------------------------
#RC#5 (P2-1)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
It can be inferred from the passage that one reason an advertiser might prefer a hard-sell approach to a soft-sell approach is that
(A)	the risks of boomerang effects are minimized when the conclusions an advertiser wants the consumer to draw are themselves left unstated
(B)	counterargumentation is likely from consumers who fail to draw their own conclusions regarding an advertising claims
(C)	inferential activity is likely to occur even if consumers perceive themselves to be more knowledgeable than the individuals presenting product claims
(D)	research on consumer memory suggests that the explicit conclusions provided by an advertiser using hard-sell approach have a significant impact on decision making
(E)	the information presented by an advertiser using the soft-sell approach may imply different conclusions to different consumers
---------------------------------
#RC#6 (P2-2)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
Each of the following is mentioned in the passage as a characteristic of the hard-sell approach EXCEPT
(A)	its overall message is readily grasped
(B)	it appeals to consumers' knowledge about the product
(C)	it makes to explicit claims that the advertised brand is superior to other brands
(D)	it makes explicit claims that the advertised brand is superior to other brands
(E)	it makes claims in the form of direct conclusions
---------------------------------
#RC#7 (P2-3)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
It can be inferred from the passage that advertisers could reduce one of the risks discussed in the last paragraph if they were able to provide
(A)	motivation for consumers to think about the advertisement's message
(B)	information that implies the advertiser's intended conclusion but leaves that conclusion unstated
(C)	subtle evidence that the advertised product is superior to that of competitors
(D)	information comparing the advertised product with its competitors
(E)	opportunity for consumers to generate their own beliefs or conclusions
---------------------------------
#RC#8 (P2-4)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A)	point out the risks involved in the use of a particular advertising strategy
(B)	make a case or the superiority of one advertising strategy over another
(C)	illustrate the ways in which two advertising strategies may be implemented
(D)	present the advantages and disadvantages of two advertising strategies
(E)	contrast the types of target markets for which two advertising strategies are appropriate
---------------------------------
#RC#9 (P2-5)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.</span></strong><br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
which of the following best describes the function of the sentence in lines 25-28 in the context of the passage as a whole?
(A)	it reiterates a distinction between two advertising strategies that is made in the first paragraph
(B)	it explains how a particular strategy avoids a drawback described earlier in the paragraph
(C)	it suggests that a risk described earlier in the paragraph is less serious than some researchers believe it to be
(D)	it outlines why the strategy described in the previous sentence involves certain risks for an advertisement's
(E)	it introduces an argument that will be refunded in the following paragraph
---------------------------------
#RC#10 (P2-6)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
It can be inferred from the passage that one situation in which the boomerang effect often occurs is when consumers
(A)	have been exposed to forceful claims that are diametrically opposed to those in an advertiser's message
(B)	have previous self-generated beliefs or conclusions that are readily accessible from memory
(C)	are subjected to advertising messages that are targeted at specific markets to which those consumers do not belong
(D)	are confused regarding the point of the advertiser's message
(E)	come to view the advertiser's message with suspicion
---------------------------------
#RC#11 (P2-7)#E#
A key decision required of advertising managers is whether a "hard-sell" or "soft-sell" strategy is appropriate for a specific target market. The hard-sell approach involves the use of direct, forceful claims regarding the benefits of the advertised brand over competitors' offerings. In contrast, the soft-sell approach involves the use of advertising claims that imply superiority more subtly.<br><br>One positive aspect of the hard-sell approach is its use of very simple and straightforward product claims presented claims presented as explicit conclusions, with little room for confusion regarding the advertiser's message. However, some consumers may resent being told what to believe and some may distrust the message. Resentment and distrust often lead to counterargumentation and to boomerang effects where consumers come to believe conclusions diametrically opposed to conclusions endorsed in advertising claims. By contrast, the risk of boomerang erects is greatly reduced with soft-sell approaches. One way to implement the soft-sell approach is to provide information that implies the main conclusions the advertiser wants the consumer to draw, but leave the conclusions themselves unstated. Because consumers are invited to make up their own minds, implicit conclusions reduce the risk of resentment, distrust, and counterargumentation.<br><br><span style="background:yellow;"><strong>Recent research on consumer memory and judgement</span></strong> suggests another advantage of implicit conclusions. Beliefs or conclusions that are self-generated are more accessible from memory than beliefs from conclusions provided explicitly by other individuals, and thus have a greater impact on judgment and decision making. Moreover, self-generated beliefs are often perceived as more accurate and valid than the beliefs of others, because other individuals may be perceived as less knowledgeable, or may be perceived as manipulative or deliberately misleading.<br><br>Despite these advantages, implicit conclusions may mot always be more effective than explicit conclusions. One risk is that some consumers may fail to draw their own conclusions and thus miss the point of the message. Inferential activity is likely only when consumers are motivated and able to engage in effortful cognitive processes. Another risk is that some consumers may draw conclusions other than the one intended. Even if inferential activity is likely, there is no guarantee that consumers will follow the path provided by the advertiser. Finally, a third risk is that consumers may infer the intended conclusion but question the validity of their inference.
It can be inferred from the passage that the research mentioned in line 43 supports which of the following statements?
(A)	implicit conclusions are more likely to capture accurately the point of the advertiser's message than are explicit conclusions.
(B)	Counterargument action is less likely to occur if an individual's beliefs or conclusions are readily accessible from memory.
(C)	The hard-sell approach results in conclusions that are more difficult for the consumer to recall than are conclusions resulting from the soft-sell approach.
(D)	When the beliefs of others are presented as definite and forceful claims, they are perceived to be as accurate as self-generated beliefs.
(E)	Despite the advantages of implicit conclusions, the hard-sell approach involves fewer risks for the advertiser than does the soft-sell approach.
---------------------------------
#RC#12 (P3-1)#C#
Suppose we were in a spaceship in free fall, where objects are weightless, and wanted to know a small solid object's mass. We could not simply balance that object against another of known weight, as we would on Earth. The unknown mass could be determined, however, by placing the object on a spring scale and swinging the scale in a circle at the end of a string. The scale would measure the tension in the string, which would depend on both the speed of revolution and the mass of the object. The tension would be greater, the greater the mass or the greater the speed of revolution. From the measured tension and speed of whirling, we could determine the object's mass.<br><br>Astronomers use an analogous procedure to "weigh" double-star systems. The speed with which the two stars in a double-star system circle one another depends on the gravitational force between them, which holds the system together. This attractive force, analogous to the tension in the string, is proportional to the stars' combined mass, according to Newton's law of gravitation. By observing the time required for the stars to circle each other (the period) and measuring the distance between them, we can deduce the restraining force, and hence the masses.
It can be inferred from the passage that the two procedures described in the passage have which of the following in common?
(A)	They have been applied in practice.
(B)	They rely on the use of a device that measures tension.
(C)	Their purpose is to determine an unknown mass.
(D)	They can only be applied to small solid objects.
(E)	They involve attraction between objects of similar mass.
---------------------------------
#RC#13 (P3-2)#C#
Suppose we were in a spaceship in free fall, where objects are weightless, and wanted to know a small solid object's mass. We could not simply balance that object against another of known weight, as we would on Earth. The unknown mass could be determined, however, by placing the object on a spring scale and swinging the scale in a circle at the end of a string. The scale would measure the tension in the string, which would depend on both the speed of revolution and the mass of the object. The tension would be greater, the greater the mass or the greater the speed of revolution. From the measured tension and speed of whirling, we could determine the object's mass.<br><br>Astronomers use an analogous procedure to "weigh" double-star systems. The speed with which the two stars in a double-star system circle one another depends on the gravitational force between them, which holds the system together. This attractive force, analogous to the tension in the string, is proportional to the stars' combined mass, according to Newton's law of gravitation. By observing the time required for the stars to circle each other (the period) and measuring the distance between them, we can deduce the restraining force, and hence the masses.
According to the passage, the tension in the string mentioned in highlight text is analogous to which of the following aspects of a double-star system?
(A)	The speed with which one star orbits the other
(B)	The gravitational attraction between the stars
(C)	The amount of time it takes for the stars to circle one another
(D)	The distance between the two stars
(E)	The combined mass of the two stars
---------------------------------
#RC#14 (P3-3)#C#
Suppose we were in a spaceship in free fall, where objects are weightless, and wanted to know a small solid object's mass. We could not simply balance that object against another of known weight, as we would on Earth. The unknown mass could be determined, however, by placing the object on a spring scale and swinging the scale in a circle at the end of a string. The scale would measure the tension in the string, which would depend on both the speed of revolution and the mass of the object. The tension would be greater, the greater the mass or the greater the speed of revolution. From the measured tension and speed of whirling, we could determine the object's mass.<br><br>Astronomers use an analogous procedure to "weigh" double-star systems. The speed with which the two stars in a double-star system circle one another depends on the gravitational force between them, which holds the system together. This attractive force, analogous to the tension in the string, is proportional to the stars' combined mass, according to Newton's law of gravitation. By observing the time required for the stars to circle each other (the period) and measuring the distance between them, we can deduce the restraining force, and hence the masses.
Which of the following best describes the relationship between the first and the second paragraph of the passage?
(A)	The first paragraph provides an illustration useful for understanding a procedure described in the second paragraph.
(B)	The first paragraph describes a hypothetical situation whose plausibility is tested in the second paragraph.
(C)	The first paragraph evaluates the usefulness of a procedure whose application is described further in the second paragraph.
(D)	The second paragraph provides evidence to support a claim made in the first paragraph.
(E)	The second paragraph analyzes the practical implications of a methodology proposed in the first paragraph.
---------------------------------
#RC#15 (P3-4)#C#
Suppose we were in a spaceship in free fall, where objects are weightless, and wanted to know a small solid object's mass. We could not simply balance that object against another of known weight, as we would on Earth. The unknown mass could be determined, however, by placing the object on a spring scale and swinging the scale in a circle at the end of a string. The scale would measure the tension in the string, which would depend on both the speed of revolution and the mass of the object. The tension would be greater, the greater the mass or the greater the speed of revolution. From the measured tension and speed of whirling, we could determine the object's mass.<br><br>Astronomers use an analogous procedure to "weigh" double-star systems. The speed with which the two stars in a double-star system circle one another depends on the gravitational force between them, which holds the system together. This attractive force, analogous to the tension in the string, is proportional to the stars' combined mass, according to Newton's law of gravitation. By observing the time required for the stars to circle each other (the period) and measuring the distance between them, we can deduce the restraining force, and hence the masses.
The author of the passage mentions observations regarding the period of a double-star system as being useful for determining
(A)	the distance between the two stars in the system
(B)	the time it takes for each star to rotate on its axis
(C)	the size of the orbit the system's two stars occupy
(D)	the degree of gravitational attraction between the system's stars
(E)	the speed at which the star system moves through space
---------------------------------
#RC#16 (P4-1)#E#
In current historiography, the picture of a consistent, unequivocal decline in women's status with the advent of capitalism and industrialization is giving way to an analysis that not only emphasizes both change (whether improvement or decline) and continuity but also accounts for geographical and occupational variation. The history of women's work in English farmhouse cheese making between 1800 and 1930 is a case in point. In her influential Women Workers and the Industrial Revolution (1930), Pinchbeck argued that the agricultural revolution of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, with its attendant specialization and enlarged scale of operation, curtailed women's participation in the business of cheese production. Earlier, she maintained, women had concerned themselves with feeding cows, rearing calves, and even selling the cheese in local markets and fairs. Pinchbeck thought that the advent of specialization meant that women's work in cheese dairying was reduced simply to processing the milk. "Dairymen" (a new social category) raised and fed cows and sold the cheese through factors, who were also men. With this narrowing of the scope of work, Pinchbeck believed, women lost business ability, independence, and initiative.<br><br>Though Pinchbeck portrayed precapitalist, preindustrial conditions as superior to what followed, recent scholarship has seriously questioned the notion of a golden age for women in precapitalist society. For example, scholars note that women's control seldom extended to the disposal of the proceeds of their work. In the case of cheese, the rise of factors may have compromised women's ability to market cheese at fairs. But merely selling the cheese did not necessarily imply access to the money: Davidoff cites the case of an Essex man who appropriated all but a fraction of the money from his wife's cheese sales.<br><br>By focusing on somewhat peripheral operations, moreover, Pinchbeck missed a substantial element of continuity in women's participation: throughout the period women did the central work of actually making cheese. Their persistence in English cheese dairying contrasts with women's early disappearance from arable agriculture in southeast England and from American cheese dairying. Comparing these three divergent developments yields some reasons for the differences among them. English cheese-making women worked in a setting in which cultural values, agricultural conditions, and the nature of their work combined to support their continued participation. In the other cases, one or more of these elements was lacking.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A)	present recently discovered evidence that supports a conventional interpretation of a historical period
(B)	describe how reinterpretations of available evidence have reinvigorated a once-discredited scholarly position
(C)	explain why some historians have tended to emphasize change rather than continuity in discussing a particular period
(D)	explore how changes in a particular occupation serve to counter the prevailing view of a historical period
(E)	examine a particular area of historical research in order to exemplify a general scholarly trend
---------------------------------
#RC#17 (P4-2)#E#
In current historiography, the picture of a consistent, unequivocal decline in women's status with the advent of capitalism and industrialization is giving way to an analysis that not only emphasizes both change (whether improvement or decline) and continuity but also accounts for geographical and occupational variation. The history of women's work in English farmhouse cheese making between 1800 and 1930 is a case in point. In her influential Women Workers and the Industrial Revolution (1930), Pinchbeck argued that the agricultural revolution of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, with its attendant specialization and enlarged scale of operation, curtailed women's participation in the business of cheese production. Earlier, she maintained, women had concerned themselves with feeding cows, rearing calves, and even selling the cheese in local markets and fairs. Pinchbeck thought that the advent of specialization meant that women's work in cheese dairying was reduced simply to processing the milk. "Dairymen" (a new social category) raised and fed cows and sold the cheese through factors, who were also men. With this narrowing of the scope of work, Pinchbeck believed, women lost business ability, independence, and initiative.<br><br>Though Pinchbeck portrayed precapitalist, preindustrial conditions as superior to what followed, recent scholarship has seriously questioned the notion of a golden age for women in precapitalist society. For example, scholars note that women's control seldom extended to the disposal of the proceeds of their work. In the case of cheese, the rise of factors may have compromised women's ability to market cheese at fairs. But merely selling the cheese did not necessarily imply access to the money: Davidoff cites the case of an Essex man who appropriated all but a fraction of the money from his wife's cheese sales.<br><br>By focusing on somewhat peripheral operations, moreover, Pinchbeck missed a substantial element of continuity in women's participation: throughout the period women did the central work of actually making cheese. Their persistence in English cheese dairying contrasts with women's early disappearance from arable agriculture in southeast England and from American cheese dairying. Comparing these three divergent developments yields some reasons for the differences among them. English cheese-making women worked in a setting in which cultural values, agricultural conditions, and the nature of their work combined to support their continued participation. In the other cases, one or more of these elements was lacking.
Regarding English local markets and fairs, which of the following can be inferred from the passage?
(A)	Both before and after the agricultural revolution, the sellers of agricultural products at these venues were men.
(B)	Knowing who the active sellers were at these venues may not give a reliable indication of who controlled the revenue from the sales.
(C)	There were no parallel institutions at which American cheese makers could sell their own products.
(D)	Prior to the agricultural revolution, the sellers of agricultural products at these venues were generally the producers themselves.
(E)	Prior to the agricultural revolution, women sold not only cheese but also products of arable agriculture at these venues.
---------------------------------
#RC#18 (P4-3)#E#
In current historiography, the picture of a consistent, unequivocal decline in women's status with the advent of capitalism and industrialization is giving way to an analysis that not only emphasizes both change (whether improvement or decline) and continuity but also accounts for geographical and occupational variation. The history of women's work in English farmhouse cheese making between 1800 and 1930 is a case in point. In her influential Women Workers and the Industrial Revolution (1930), Pinchbeck argued that the agricultural revolution of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, with its attendant specialization and enlarged scale of operation, curtailed women's participation in the business of cheese production. Earlier, she maintained, women had concerned themselves with feeding cows, rearing calves, and even selling the cheese in local markets and fairs. Pinchbeck thought that the advent of specialization meant that women's work in cheese dairying was reduced simply to processing the milk. "Dairymen" (a new social category) raised and fed cows and sold the cheese through factors, who were also men. With this narrowing of the scope of work, Pinchbeck believed, women lost business ability, independence, and initiative.<br><br>Though Pinchbeck portrayed precapitalist, preindustrial conditions as superior to what followed, recent scholarship has seriously questioned the notion of a golden age for women in precapitalist society. For example, scholars note that women's control seldom extended to the disposal of the proceeds of their work. In the case of cheese, the rise of factors may have compromised women's ability to market cheese at fairs. But merely selling the cheese did not necessarily imply access to the money: Davidoff cites the case of an Essex man who appropriated all but a fraction of the money from his wife's cheese sales.<br><br>By focusing on somewhat peripheral operations, moreover, Pinchbeck missed a substantial element of continuity in women's participation: throughout the period women did the central work of actually making cheese. Their persistence in English cheese dairying contrasts with women's early disappearance from arable agriculture in southeast England and from American cheese dairying. Comparing these three divergent developments yields some reasons for the differences among them. English cheese-making women worked in a setting in which cultural values, agricultural conditions, and the nature of their work combined to support their continued participation. In the other cases, one or more of these elements was lacking.
The passage describes the work of Pinchbeck primarily in order to
(A)	demonstrate that some of the conclusions reached by recent historians were anticipated in earlier scholarship
(B)	provide an instance of the viewpoint that, according to the passage's author, is being superseded
(C)	illustrate the ways in which recent historians have built on the work of their predecessors
(D)	provide a point of reference for subsequent scholarship on women's work during the agricultural revolution
(E)	show the effect that the specialization introduced in the agricultural and industrial revolutions had on women's work
---------------------------------
#RC#19 (P4-4)#E#
In current historiography, the picture of a consistent, unequivocal decline in women's status with the advent of capitalism and industrialization is giving way to an analysis that not only emphasizes both change (whether improvement or decline) and continuity but also accounts for geographical and occupational variation. The history of women's work in English farmhouse cheese making between 1800 and 1930 is a case in point. In her influential Women Workers and the Industrial Revolution (1930), Pinchbeck argued that the agricultural revolution of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, with its attendant specialization and enlarged scale of operation, curtailed women's participation in the business of cheese production. Earlier, she maintained, women had concerned themselves with feeding cows, rearing calves, and even selling the cheese in local markets and fairs. Pinchbeck thought that the advent of specialization meant that women's work in cheese dairying was reduced simply to processing the milk. "Dairymen" (a new social category) raised and fed cows and sold the cheese through factors, who were also men. With this narrowing of the scope of work, Pinchbeck believed, women lost business ability, independence, and initiative.<br><br>Though Pinchbeck portrayed precapitalist, preindustrial conditions as superior to what followed, recent scholarship has seriously questioned the notion of a golden age for women in precapitalist society. For example, scholars note that women's control seldom extended to the disposal of the proceeds of their work. In the case of cheese, the rise of factors may have compromised women's ability to market cheese at fairs. But merely selling the cheese did not necessarily imply access to the money: Davidoff cites the case of an Essex man who appropriated all but a fraction of the money from his wife's cheese sales.<br><br>By focusing on somewhat peripheral operations, moreover, Pinchbeck missed a substantial element of continuity in women's participation: throughout the period women did the central work of actually making cheese. Their persistence in English cheese dairying contrasts with women's early disappearance from arable agriculture in southeast England and from American cheese dairying. Comparing these three divergent developments yields some reasons for the differences among them. English cheese-making women worked in a setting in which cultural values, agricultural conditions, and the nature of their work combined to support their continued participation. In the other cases, one or more of these elements was lacking.
It can be inferred from the passage that women did work in
(A)	American cheesemaking at some point prior to industrialization
(B)	arable agriculture in northern England both before and after the agricultural revolution
(C)	arable agriculture in southeast England after the agricultural revolution, in those locales in which cultural values supported their participation
(D)	the sale of cheese at local markets in England even after the agricultural revolution
(E)	some areas of American cheese dairying after industrialization
---------------------------------
#RC#20 (P5-1)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
According to the passage, Walker and Szalay disagree on which of the following points?
(A)	The structure and composition of australopithecine teeth
(B)	The kinds of conclusions that can be drawn from the micro-wear patterns on australopithecine teeth
(C)	The idea that fruit was a part of the australopithecine diet
(D)	The extent to which seed cracking and bone crunching produce similar micro-wear patterns on teeth
(E)	The function of the heavy enamel on australopithecine teeth
---------------------------------
#RC#21 (P5-2)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
The passage suggests that Walker's research indicated which of the following about australopithecine teeth?
(A)	They had micro-wear characteristics indicating that fruit constituted only a small part of their diet.
(B)	They lacked micro-wear characteristics associated with seed eating and bone crunching.
(C)	They had micro-wear characteristics that differed in certain ways from the micro-wear patterns of chimpanzees and orangutans.
(D)	They had micro-wear characteristics suggesting that the diet of australopithecines varied from one region to another.
(E)	They lacked the micro-wear characteristics distinctive of modern frugivores.
---------------------------------
#RC#22 (P5-3)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
The passage suggests that which of the following would be true of studies of tooth micro-wear patterns conducted on modern baboons?
(A)	They would inaccurately suggest that some baboons eat more soft-bodied than hard-bodied insects.
(B)	They would suggest that insects constitute the largest part of some baboons' diets.
(C)	They would reveal that there are no significant differences in tooth micro-wear patterns among baboon populations.
(D)	They would inadequately reflect the extent to which some baboons consume certain types of insects.
(E)	They would indicate that baboons in certain regions eat only soft-bodied insects, whereas baboons in other regions eat hard-bodied insects.
---------------------------------
#RC#23 (P5-4)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
The passage suggests which of the following about the micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of omnivorous primates?
(A)	The patterns provide information about what kinds of foods are not eaten by the particular species of primate, but not about the foods actually eaten.
(B)	The patterns of various primate species living in the same environment resemble one another.
(C)	The patterns may not provide information about the extent to which a particular species' diet includes seeds.
(D)	The patterns provide more information about these primates' diet than do the tooth micro-wear patterns of primates who are frugivores.
(E)	The patterns may differ among groups within a species depending on the environment within which a particular group lives.
---------------------------------
#RC#24 (P5-5)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
It can be inferred from the passage that if studies of tooth micro-wear patterns were conducted on modern baboons, which of the following would most likely be true of the results obtained?
(A)	There would be enough abrasion to allow a determination of whether baboons are frugivorous or insectivorous.
(B)	The results would suggest that insects constitute the largest part of the baboons' diet.
(C)	The results would reveal that there are no significant differences in tooth micro-wear patterns from one regional baboon population to another.
(D)	The results would provide an accurate indication of the absence of some kinds of insects from the baboons' diet.
(E)	The results would be unlikely to provide any indication of what inferences about the australopithecine diet can or cannot be drawn from micro-wear studies.
---------------------------------
#RC#25 (P5-6)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
It can be inferred from the passage that Walker's conclusion about the australopithecine diet would be called into question under which of the following circumstances?
(A)	The tooth enamel of australopithecines is found to be much heavier than that of modern frugivorous primates.
(B)	The micro-wear patterns of australopithecine teeth from regions other than east Africa are analyzed.
(C)	Orangutans are found to have a much broader diet than is currently recognized.
(D)	The environment of east Africa at the time australopithecines lived there is found to have been far more varied than is currently thought.
(E)	The area in which the australopithecine specimens were found is discovered to have been very rich in soft-bodied insects during the period when australopithecines lived there.
---------------------------------
#RC#26 (P5-7)#E#
Micro-wear patterns found on the teeth of long-extinct specimens of the primate species australopithecine may provide evidence about their diets. For example, on the basis of tooth micro-wear patterns, Walker dismisses Jolly's hypothesis that australopithecines ate hard seeds. He also disputes Szalay's suggestion that the heavy enamel of australopithecine teeth is an adaptation to bone crunching, since both seed cracking and bone crunching produce distinctive micro-wear characteristics on teeth. His conclusion that australopithecines were frugivores (fruit eaters) is based upon his observation that the tooth micro-wear characteristics of east African australopithecine specimens are indistinguishable from those of chimpanzees and orangutans, which are commonly assumed to be frugivorous primates.<br><br>However, research on the diets of contemporary primates suggests that micro-wear studies may have limited utility in determining the foods that are actually eaten. For example, insect eating, which can cause distinct micro-wear patterns, would not cause much tooth abrasion in modern baboons, who eat only soft-bodied insects rather than hard-bodied insects. In addition, the diets of current omnivorous primates vary considerably depending on the environments that different groups within a primate species inhabit; if australopithecines were omnivores too, we might expect to find considerable population variation in their tooth micro-wear patterns. Thus, Walker's description of possible australopithecine diets may need to be expanded to include a much more diverse diet.
The author of the passage mentions the diets of baboons and other living primates most likely in order to
(A)	provide evidence that refutes Walkers conclusions about the foods making up the diets of australopithecines
(B)	suggest that studies of tooth micro-wear patterns are primarily useful for determining the diets of living primates
(C)	suggest that australopithecines were probably omnivores rather than frugivores
(D)	illustrate some of the limitations of using tooth micro-wear patterns to draw definitive conclusions about a groups diet
(E)	suggest that tooth micro-wear patterns are caused by persistent, as opposed to occasional, consumption of particular foods
---------------------------------
#CR#27 (3)#A#
Which of the following most logically completes the passage?<br><br>A business analysis of the Appenian railroad system divided its long-distance passenger routes into two categories: rural routes and interurban routes. The analysis found that, unlike the interurban routes, few rural routes carried a high enough passenger volume to be profitable. Closing unprofitable rural routes, however, will not necessarily enhance the profitability of the whole system, since ________.
(A)	a large part of the passenger volume on interurban routes is accounted for by passengers who begin or end their journeys on rural routes
(B)	within the last two decades several of the least used rural routes have been closed and their passenger services have been replaced by buses
(C)	the rural routes were all originally constructed at least one hundred years ago, whereas some of the interurban routes were constructed recently for new high-speed express trains
(D)	not all of Appenias large cities are equally well served by interurban railroad services
(E)	the greatest passenger volume, relative to the routes capacity, is not on either category of long-distance routes but is on suburban commuter routes
---------------------------------
#CR#28 (7)#C#
Although Ackerburgs subway system is currently operating at a deficit, the transit authority will lower subway fares next year. The authority projects that the lower fares will result in a ten percent increase in the number of subway riders. Since the additional income from the larger ridership will more than offset the decrease due to lower fares, the transit authority actually expects the fare reduction to reduce or eliminate the subway systems operating deficit for next year.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, provides the most support for the transit authoritys expectation of reducing the subway systems operating deficit?
(A)	Throughout the years that the subway system has operated, fares have never before been reduced.
(B)	The planned fare reduction will not apply to students, who can already ride the subway for a reduced fare.
(C)	Next year, the transit authority will have to undertake several large-scale track maintenance projects.
(D)	The subway system can accommodate a ten percent increase in ridership without increasing the number of trains it runs each day.
(E)	The current subway fares in Ackerburg are higher than subway fares in other cities in the region.
---------------------------------
#CR#29 (16)#D#
Ten years ago the number of taxpayers in Green County was slightly greater than the number of registered voters. The number of taxpayers has doubled over the last ten years, while the number of registered voters has increased, but at a lower rate than has the number of taxpayers. <br><br>Which of the following must be true in Greenspace County if the statements above are true?
(A)	The number of taxpayers is now smaller than the number of registered voters.
(B)	Everyone who is a registered voter is also a taxpayer.
(C)	The proportion of registered voters to taxpayers has increased over at the last ten years.
(D)	The proportion of registered voters to taxpayers has decreased over at the last ten years.
(E)	The proportion of registered voters to taxpayers has remained unchanged over at the last ten years.
---------------------------------
#CR#30 (21)#D#
Nutritionists are advising people to eat more fish, since the omega-3 fatty acids in fish help combat many diseases If everyone took this advice, however, there would not be enough fish in oceans, rivers, and lakes to supply the demand; the oceans are already being overfished. The obvious method to ease the pressure on wild fish populations is for people to increase their consumption of farmed fish.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, raises the most serious doubt concerning the prospects for success of the solution proposed above?
(A)	Aquaculture, or fish farming, raises more fish in a given volume of water than are generally present in the wild.
(B)	Some fish farming, particularly of shrimp and other shellfish, takes places in enclosures in the ocean.
(C)	There are large expanses of ocean waters that do not contain enough nutrients to support substantial fish populations.
(D)	The feed for farmed ocean fish is largely made from small wild-caught fish, including the young of many popular food species.
(E)	Some of the species that are now farmed extensively were not commonly eaten when they were only available in the wild.
---------------------------------
#CR#31 (25)#B#
It is often said that high rates of inflation tend to diminish peoples incentive to save and invest. This view must be incorrect, however, because people generally saved and invested more of their income in the 1970s when inflation rates were high than they did in the 1980s when inflation rates were low.<br><br>Of the following, the best criticism of the argument above is that it overlooks the possibility that
(A)	all people do not respond in the same way to a given economic stimulus
(B)	certain factors operating in the 1980s but not in the 1970s diminished peoples incentive to save and invest
(C)	the population was larger in the 1980s than it was in the 1970s
(D)	the proponents of the view cited would stand to gain if inflation rates become lower
(E)	a factor that affects people's savings behavior in a certain way could affect peoples investment behavior quite differently
---------------------------------
#CR#32 (28)#A#
Which of the following most logically completes the argument below?<br><br>Within the earth's core, which is iron, pressure increases with depth. Because the temperature at which iron melts increases with pressure, the inner core is solid and the outer core is molten. Physicists can determine the melting temperature of iron at any given pressure and the pressure for any given depth in the earth. Therefore, the actual temperature at the boundary of the earth's outer and inner cores - the melting temperature of iron there - can be determined, since_______.
(A)	the depth beneath the earth's surface of the boundary between the outer and inner cores is known
(B)	some of the heat from the earth's core flows to the surface of the earth
(C)	pressures within the earth's outer core are much greater than pressures above the outer core
(D)	nowhere in the earth's core can the temperature be measured directly
(E)	the temperatures within the earth's inner core are higher than in the outer core
---------------------------------
#CR#33 (33)#A#
Many office buildings designed to prevent outside air from entering have been shown to have elevated levels of various toxic substances circulating through the air inside, a phenomenon known as sick building syndrome. Yet the air in other office buildings does not have elevated levels of these substances, even though those buildings are the same age as the "sick" buildings and have similar designs and ventilation systems.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to explain why not all office buildings designed to prevent outside air from entering have air that contains elevated levels of toxic substances?
(A)	Certain adhesives and drying agents used in particular types of furniture, carpets, and paint contribute the bulk of the toxic substances that circulate in the air of office buildings.
(B)	Most office buildings with sick building syndrome were built between 1950 and 1990.
(C)	Among buildings designed to prevent outside air from entering, houses are no less likely than office buildings to have air that contains elevated levels of toxic substances.
(D)	The toxic substances that are found in the air of "sick" buildings are substances that are found in at least small quantities in nearly every building.
(E)	Office buildings with windows that can readily be opened are unlikely to suffer from sick building syndrome.
---------------------------------
#CR#34 (35)#C#
Premature babies who receive regular massages are more active than premature babies who do not. Even when all the babies drink the same amount of milk, the massaged babies gain more weight than do the unrnassaged babies. This is puzzling because a more active person generally requires a greater food intake to maintain or gain weight.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, best reconciles the apparent discrepancy described above?
(A)	Increased activity leads to increased levels of hunger, especially when food intake is not also increased.
(B)	Massage increases premature babies curiosity about their environment, and curiosity leads to increased activity.
(C)	Increased activity causes the intestines of premature babies to mature more quickly, enabling the babies to digest and absorb more of the nutrients in the milk they drink.
(D)	Massage does not increase the growth rate of babies over one year old, if the babies had not been previously massaged.
(E)	Premature babies require a daily intake of nutrients that is significantly higher than that required by babies who were not born prematurely.
---------------------------------
#CR#35 (38)#C#
Budget constraints have made police officials consider reassigning a considerable number of officers from traffic enforcement to work on higher-priority, serious crimes. Reducing traffic enforcement for this reason would be counterproductive, however, in light of the tendency of criminals to use cars when engaged in the commission of serious crimes. An officer stopping a car for a traffic violation can make a search that turns up evidence of serious crime.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the argument given?
(A)	An officer who stops a car containing evidence of the commission of a serious crime risks a violent confrontation, even if the vehicle was stopped only for a traffic violation.
(B)	When the public becomes aware that traffic enforcement has lessened, it typically becomes lax in obeying traffic rules.
(C)	Those willing to break the law to commit serious crimes are often in committing such crimes unwilling to observe what they regard as the lesser constraints of traffic law.
(D)	The offenders committing serious crimes who would be caught because of traffic violations are not the same group of individuals as those who would be caught if the arresting officers were reassigned from traffic enforcement.
(E)	The great majority of persons who are stopped by officers for traffic violations are not guilty of any serious crimes.
---------------------------------
#CR#36 (43)#A#
Which of the following most logically completes the passage?<br><br>It is generally believed that people receiving frequent medical checkups are likely to need hospitalization less frequently than they would otherwise; after all, many things can be done following a checkup to prevent problems that, if ignored, might become acute and then require hospitalization. But for people with chronic illnesses, frequent medical checkups are likely to lead to more frequent hospitalization since __________.
(A)	the recommended treatments for complications of many chronic illnesses involve hospitalization, even if those complications are detected while barely noticeable
(B)	medical checkups sometimes do not reveal early symptoms of those chronic illnesses that are best treated in a hospital
(C)	the average length of a hospital stay is the same for those who receive frequent checkups as for those who do not
(D)	people with chronic illnesses generally receive medical checkups more frequently than people who are not chronically ill
(E)	the average length of a hospital stay for people with a chronic illness tends to increase as the illness progresses
---------------------------------
#CR#37 (46)#A#
Meat from chickens contaminated with salmonella bacteria can cause serious food poisoning. Capsaicin, the chemical that gives chili peppers their hot flavor, has antibacterial properties. Chickens do not have taste receptors for capsaicin and will readily eat feed laced with capsaicin. When chickens were fed such feed and then exposed to salmonella bacteria, relatively few of them became contaminated with salmonella. <br><br>In deciding whether the feed would be useful in raising salmonella-free chicken for retail sale, it would be most helpful to determine which of the following?
(A)	Whether feeding capsaicin to chickens affects the taste of their meat
(B)	Whether eating capsaicin reduces the risk of salmonella poisoning for humans
(C)	Whether chicken is more prone to salmonella contamination than other kinds of meat
(D)	Whether appropriate cooking of chicken contaminated with salmonella can always prevent food poisoning
(E)	Whether capsaicin can be obtained only from chili peppers
---------------------------------
#CR#38 (50)#D#
Which of the following most logically completes the argument below? <br><br>When mercury-vapor streetlights are used in areas inhabited by insect-eating bats, the bats feed almost exclusively around the lights, because the lights attract flying insects. In Greenville, the mercury-vapor streetlights are about to be replaced with energy-saving sodium streetlights, which do not attract insects. This change is likely to result in a drop in the population of insect-eating bats in Greenville, since __________.
(A)	the bats do not begin to hunt until after sundown
(B)	the bats are unlikely to feed on insects that do not fly
(C)	the highway department will be able to replace mercury-vapor streetlights with sodium streetlights within a relatively short time and without disrupting the continuity of lighting at the locations of the streetlights
(D)	in the absence of local concentrations of the flying insects on which bats teed, the bats expend much more energy on hunting for food, requiring much larger quantities of insects to sustain each bat
(E)	bats use echolocation to catch insects and therefore gain no advantage from the fact that insects flying in the vicinity of streetlights are visible at night
---------------------------------
#CR#39 (52)#D#
Rats injected with morphine exhibit decreased activity of the immune system, the bodily system that fights off infections. These same rats exhibited heightened blood levels of corticosteroids, chemicals secreted by the adrenal glands. Since corticosteroids can interfere with immune-system activity, scientists hypothesized that the way morphine reduces immune responses in rats is by stimulating the adrenal glands to secrete additional corticosteroids into the bloodstream.<br><br>Which of the following experiments would yield the most useful results for evaluating the scientists hypothesis?
(A)	Injecting morphine into rats that already have heightened blood levels of corticosteroids and then observing their new blood levels of corticosteroids
(B)	Testing the level of immune-system activity of rats, removing their adrenal glands, and then testing the rats immune-system activity levels again
(C)	Injecting rats with corticosteroids and then observing how many of the rats contracted infections
(D)	Removing the adrenal glands of rats, injecting the rats with morphine, and then testing the level of the rats immune-system responses
(E)	Injecting rats with a drug that stimulates immune-system activity and then observing the level of corticosteroids in their bloodstreams
---------------------------------
#CR#40 (53)#C#
Curator: If our museum lends Venus to the Hart Institute for their show this spring, they will lend us their Rembrandt etchings for our print exhibition next fall. Having those etchings will increase attendance to the exhibition and hence increase revenue from our general admission fee.<br><br>Museum Administrator: But Venus is our biggest attraction. Moreover the Harts show will run for twice as long as our exhibition. So on balance the number of patrons may decrease.<br><br>The point of the administrators response to the curator is to question
(A)	whether getting the Rembrandt etchings from the Hart Institute is likely to increase attendance at the print exhibition
(B)	whether the Hart Institutes Rembrandt etchings will be appreciated by those patrons of the curators museum for whom the museums biggest attraction is Venus
(C)	whether the number of patrons attracted by the Hart Institutes Rembrandt etchings will be larger than the number of patrons who do not come in the spring because Venus is on loan
(D)	whether, if Venus is lent, the museums revenue from general admission fees during the print exhibition will exceed its revenue from general admission fees during the Hart Institutes exhibition
(E)	whether the Hart Institute or the curators museum will have the greater financial gain from the proposed exchange of artworks
---------------------------------
#CR#41 (55)#C#
On May first, in order to reduce the number of overdue books, a childrens library instituted a policy of forgiving fines and giving bookmarks to children returning all of their overdue books. On July first there were twice as many overdue books as there had been on May first, although a record number of books had been returned during the interim.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to explain the apparent inconsistency in the results of the librarys policy?
(A)	The librarians did not keep accurate records of how many children took advantage of the grace period, and some of the children returning overdue books did not return all of their overdue books.
(B)	Although the grace period enticed some children to return all of their overdue books, it did not convince all of the children with overdue books to return all of their books.
(C)	The bookmarks became popular among the children, so in order to collect the bookmarks, many children borrowed many more books than they usually did and kept them past their due date.
(D)	The children were allowed to borrow a maximum of five books for a two-week period, and hence each child could keep a maximum of fifteen books beyond their due date within a two-month period.
(E)	Although the library forgave overdue fines during the grace period, the amount previously charged the children was minimal; hence, the forgiveness of the fines did not provide enough incentive for them to return their overdue books.
---------------------------------
#CR#42 (60)#A#
Aroca City currently funds its public schools through taxes on property. In place of this system, the city plans to introduce a sales tax of three percent on all retail sales in the city. Critics protest that <strong>three percent of current retail sales falls short of the amount raised</strong> for schools by property taxes. The critics are correct on this point. Nevertheless, implementing the plan will probably not reduce the money going to Aroca's schools. Several large retailers have selected Aroca City as the site for huge new stores, and these are certain to draw large numbers of shoppers from neighboring municipalities, where sales are taxed at rates of six percent and more. In consequence, <strong>retail sales in Aroca City are bound to increase substantially</strong>.<br><br>In the argument given, the two potions in boldface play which of the following roles?
(A)	The first is an objection that has been raised against a certain plan; the second is a prediction that, if accurate, undermines the force of that objection.
(B)	The first is a criticism, endorsed by the argument, of a funding plan; the second is a point the argument makes in favor of adopting an alternative plan.
(C)	The first is a criticism, endorsed by the argument, of a funding plan; the second is the main reason cited by the argument for its endorsement of the criticism.
(D)	The first is a claim that the argument seeks to refute; the second is the main point used by the argument to show that the claim is false.
(E)	The first is a claim that the argument accepts with certain reservations; the second presents that claim in a rewarding that is not subject to those reservations
---------------------------------
#CR#43 (62)#B#
Colorless diamonds can command high prices as gemstones. A type of less valuable diamonds can be treated to remove all color. Only sophisticated tests can distinguish such treated diamonds from naturally colorless ones. However, only 2 percent of diamonds mined are of the colored type that can be successfully treated, and many of those are of insufficient quality to make the treatment worthwhile. Surely, therefore, the vast majority of colorless diamonds sold by jewelers are naturally colorless.<br><br>A serious flaw in the reasoning of the argument is that
(A)	comparisons between the price diamonds command as gemstones and their value for other uses are omitted
(B)	information about the rarity of treated diamonds is not combined with information about the rarity of naturally colorless, gemstone diamonds
(C)	the possibility that colored diamonds might be used as gemstones, even without having been treated, is ignored
(D)	the currently available method for making colorless diamonds from colored ones is treated as though it were the only possible method for doing so
(E)	the difficulty that a customer of a jeweler would have in distinguishing a naturally colorless diamond from treated one is not taken into account
---------------------------------
#CR#44 (64)#C#
Historian: Newton developed mathematical concepts and techniques that are fundamental to modern calculus. Leibniz developed closely analogous concepts and techniques. It has traditionally been thought that these discoveries were independent. Researchers have, however, recently discovered notes of Leibniz that discuss one of Newtons books on mathematics. Several scholars have argued that since the book includes a presentation of Newtons calculus concepts and techniques, and since <strong>the notes were written before Leibniz own development of calculus concepts and techniques</strong>, it is virtually certain that the traditional view is false. A more cautious conclusion than this is called for, however. <strong>Leibniz notes are limited to early sections of Newtons book, sections that precede the ones in which Newtons calculus concepts and techniques are presented.</strong><br><br>In the historians reasoning, the two portions in boldface play which of the following roles?
(A)	The first provides evidence in support of the overall position that the historian defends; the second is evidence that has been used to support an opposing position.
(B)	The first provides evidence in support of the overall position that the historian defends; the second is that position.
(C)	The first provides evidence in support of an intermediate conclusion that is drawn to provide support for the overall position that the historian defends; the second provides evidence against that intermediate conclusion.
(D)	The first is evidence that has been used to support a conclusion that the historian criticizes; the second is evidence offered in support of the historians own position.
(E)	The first is evidence that has been used to support a conclusion that the historian criticizes; the second is further information that substantiates that evidence.
---------------------------------
#CR#45 (67)#D#
For over two centuries, no one had been able to make Damascus bladesblades with a distinctive serpentine surface patternbut a contemporary sword maker may just have rediscovered how. Using iron with trace impurities that precisely matched those present in the iron used in historic Damascus blades, this contemporary sword maker seems to have finally hit on an intricate process by which he can produce a blade indistinguishable from a true Damascus blade.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, provides the strongest support for the hypothesis that trace impurities in the iron are essential for the production of Damascus blades?
(A)	There are surface features of every Damascus bladeincluding the blades produced by the contemporary sword makerthat are unique to that blade.
(B)	The iron with which the contemporary sword maker made Damascus blades came from a source of iron that was unknown two centuries ago.
(C)	Almost all the tools used by the contemporary sword maker were updated versions of tools that were used by sword makers over two centuries ago.
(D)	Production of Damascus blades by sword makers of the past ceased abruptly after those sword makers' original source of iron became exhausted.
(E)	Although Damascus blades were renowned for maintaining a sharp edge, the blade made by the contemporary sword maker suggests that they may have maintained their edge less well than blades made using what is now the standard process for making blades.
---------------------------------
#CR#46 (68)#E#
Images from ground-based telescopes are invariably distorted by the Earth's atmosphere. Orbiting space telescopes, however, operating above Earth's atmosphere, should provide superbly detailed images. Therefore, ground-based telescopes will soon become obsolete for advanced astronomical research purposes.<br><br>Which of the following statements, if true, would cast the most doubt on the conclusion drawn above?
(A)	An orbiting space telescope due to be launched this year is far behind schedule and over budget, whereas the largest ground-based telescope was both within budget and on schedule.
(B)	Ground-based telescopes located on mountain summits are not subject to the kinds of atmospheric distortion which, at low altitudes, make stars appear to twinkle.
(C)	By careful choice of observatory location, it is possible for large-aperture telescopes to avoid most of the kind of wind turbulence that can distort image quality.
(D)	When large-aperture telescopes are located at high altitudes near the equator, they permit the best Earth-based observations of the center of the Milky Way Galaxy, a prime target of astronomical research.
(E)	Detailed spectral analyses, upon which astronomers rely for determining the chemical composition and evolutionary history of stars, require telescopes with more light-gathering capacity than space telescopes can provide.
---------------------------------
#CR#47 (71)#C#
Which of the following, if true, most logically completes the argument?<br><br>Some dairy farmers in the province of Takandia want to give their cows a synthetic hormone that increases milk production. Many Takandians, however, do not want to buy milk from cows given the synthetic hormone. For this reason Takandias legislature is considering a measure requiring milk from cows given the hormone to be labeled as such. Even if the measure is defeated, dairy farmers who use the hormone will probably lose customers, since __________.
(A)	it has not been proven that any trace of the synthetic hormone exists in the milk of cows given the hormone
(B)	some farmers in Takandia who plan to use the synthetic hormone will probably not do so if the measure were passed
(C)	milk from cows that have not been given the synthetic hormone can be labeled as such without any legislative action
(D)	the legislatures consideration of the bill has been widely publicized
(E)	milk that comes from cows given the synthetic hormone looks and tastes the same as milk from cows that have not received the hormone
---------------------------------
#CR#48 (72)#E#
In order to reduce dependence on imported oil, the government of Jalica has imposed minimum fuel-efficiency requirements on all new cars, beginning this year. The more fuel-efficient a car, the less pollution it produces per mile driven. As Jalicans replace their old cars with cars that meet the new requirements, annual pollution from car traffic is likely to decrease in Jalica.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument?
(A)	In Jalica, domestically produced oil is more expensive than imported oil.
(B)	The Jalican government did not intend the new fuel-e?iciency requirement to be a pollution- reduction measure.
(C)	Some pollution-control devices mandated in Jalica make cars less fuel-e?icient than they would be without those devices.
(D)	The new regulation requires no change in the chemical formulation of ?mel for cars in Jalica.
(E)	Jalicans who get cars that are more fuel-e?icient tend to do more driving than before.
---------------------------------
#CR#49 (75)#A#
Many gardeners believe that the variety of clematis vine that is most popular among gardeners in North America is jackmanii. This belief is apparently correct since, of the one million clematis plants sold per year by the largest clematis nursery in North America, ten percent are jackmanii. <br><br>Which of the following is an assumption on which the argument depends?
(A)	The nursery sells more than 10 different varieties of clematis
(B)	The largest clematis nursery in North America sells nothing but clematis plants
(C)	Some of the jackmanii sold by the nursery are sold to gardeners outside North America
(D)	Most North American gardeners grow clematis in their gardens
(E)	For all nurseries in North America that specialize in clematis, at least 10% of the clematis plants they sell are jackmanii.
---------------------------------
#CR#50 (78)#D#
Since 1990 the percentage of bacterial sinus infections in AQADESTAN that are resistant to the antibiotic perxicillin has increased substantially. Bacteria can quickly develop resistance to an antibiotic when it is prescribed indiscriminately or when patients fail to take it as prescribed. Since perxicillin has not been indiscriminately prescribed, health officials hypothesize that the increase in perxicillin resistant sinus infections is largely due to patients failure to take his medication as prescribed.<br><br>Which of the following, it true of Aqadestan, provides most support for the health officials' hypothesis:
(A)	Resistance to several other commonly prescribed antibiotics has not increased since 1990 in Aqadestan
(B)	A large number of Aqadestanis never seek medical help when they have a sinus infection.
(C)	When it first became available, perxicillin was much more effective in treating bacterial sinus infections than any other antibiotic used for such infections at the time.
(D)	Many patients who take perxicillin experience severe side effects within the ?rst few days of their prescribed regimen
(E)	Aqadestani health clinics provide antibiotics to their patients at cost
---------------------------------
#CR#51 (83)#C#
To prevent a newly built dam on the Chiff River from blocking the route of fish migrating to breeding grounds upstream, the dam includes a fish pass, a mechanism designed to allow fish through the dam. Before the construction of the dam and fish pass, several thousand fish a day swam upriver during spawning season. But in the first season after the project's completion, only 300 per day made the journey. Clearly, the fish pass is defective. <br><br>Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument?
(A)	Fish that have migrated to the upstream breeding grounds do not return down the Chiff River again.
(B)	On other rivers in the region, the construction of dams with fish passes has led to only small decreases in the number of fish migrating upstream.
(C)	The construction of the dam stirred up potentially toxic river sediments that were carried downstream.
(D)	Populations of migratory fish in the Chiff River have been declining slightly over the last 20 years.
(E)	During spawning season, the dam releases sufficient water far migratory fish below the dam to swim upstream.
---------------------------------
#SC#52 (2)#D#
Some 200 world-famous physicists recently attended a conference whose purpose <span style="text-decoration: underline">not only was to consider the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also assessing the accuracy of the predictions made at the last meeting of this type,</span> which took place 50 years earlier.
(A)	not only was to consider the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also assessing the accuracy of the predictions made at the last meeting of this type,
(B)	not only was considering the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also assessing the accuracy of the predictions which were made at the last meeting of this type and
(C)	was not only considering the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also to assess the accuracy of the predictions made at the last meeting of this type and
(D)	was not only to consider the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also to assess the accuracy of the predictions made at the last meeting of this type,
(E)	was to consider not only the prospects for the next 50 years of research in physics but also assessing the accuracy of the predictions made at the last meeting of this type,
---------------------------------
#SC#53 (3)#E#
Global warming is said to be responsible for extreme weather changes, <span style="text-decoration: underline">which, like the heavy rains that caused more than $2 billion in damages and led to flooding throughout the state of California,</span> and the heat wave in the Northeastern and Midwestern United States, which was also the cause of a great amount of damage and destruction.
(A)	which, like the heavy rains that caused more than $2 billion in damages and led to flooding throughout the state of California,
(B)	which, like the heavy rains that throughout the state of California caused more than $2 billion in damages and led to flooding,
(C)	like the heavy flooding that, because of rains throughout the state of California, caused more than $2 billion in damages,
(D)	such as the heavy flooding that led to rains throughout the state of California causing more than $2 billion in damages,
(E)	such as the heavy rains that led to flooding throughout the state of California, causing more than $2 billion in damages,
---------------------------------
#SC#54 (8)#D#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">It stood twelve feet tall, weighed nine thousand pounds, and wielded seven-inch claws, and Megatherium americanum, a giant ground sloth,</span> may have been the largest hunting mammal ever to walk the Earth.
(A)	It stood twelve feet tall, weighed nine thousand pounds, and wielded seven-inch claws, and Megatherium americanum, a giant ground sloth,
(B)	It stood twelve feet tall, weighing nine thousand pounds, and wielding seven-inch claws, Megatherium americanum was a giant ground sloth and
(C)	The giant ground sloth Megatherium americanum, having stood twelve feet tall, weighing nine thousand pounds, and wielding seven-inch claws, it
(D)	Standing twelve feet tall, weighing nine thousand pounds, and wielding seven-inch claws, Megatherium americanum, a giant ground sloth,
(E)	Standing twelve feet tall, weighing nine thousand pounds, it wielded seven-inch claws, and the giant ground sloth Megatherium americanum
---------------------------------
#SC#55 (11)#C#
Coffee prices rose sharply Monday, posting their biggest one-day gain in almost three years, after a weekend cold snap in Brazil raised concern <span style="text-decoration: underline">that there could be damage to the worlds largest crop when at a time with supplies</span> already tight.
(A)	that there could be damage to the worlds largest crop when at a time with supplies
(B)	that the worlds largest crop could be damaged at a time such as when supplies are
(C)	that the worlds largest crop could be damaged at a time when supplies are
(D)	of the worlds largest crop possibly being damaged at a time with supplies
(E)	of possibly damaging the worlds largest crop at a time that supplies were
---------------------------------
#SC#56 (14)#B#
A March 2000 Census Bureau survey showed that Mexico accounted for more than a quarter of all foreign-born residents of the United States, <span style="text-decoration: underline">the largest share for any country to contribute</span> since 1890, when about 30 percent of the countrys foreign-born population was from Germany.
(A)	the largest share for any country to contribute
(B)	the largest share that any country has contributed
(C)	which makes it the largest share for any country to contribute
(D)	having the largest share to be contributed by any country
(E)	having the largest share to have been contributed by any country
---------------------------------
#SC#57 (19)#B#
The personal income tax did not become permanent in the United States until the First World War; before that time <span style="text-decoration: underline">the federal government was dependent on tariffs to be their main source of revenue</span>.
(A)	the federal government was dependent on tariffs to be their main source of revenue
(B)	the federal government had depended on tariffs as its main source of revenue
(C)	tariffs were what the federal government was dependent on to be its main source of revenue
(D)	the main source of revenue for the federal government was dependent on tariffs
(E)	for their main source of revenue, tariffs were depended on by the federal government
---------------------------------
#SC#58 (23)#C#
After weeks of uncertainty about the course the country would pursue to stabilize its troubled economy, officials reached a revised agreement with the International Monetary Fund, pledging <span style="text-decoration: underline">the enforcement of substantially greater budget discipline as that which was originally promised and to keep inflation below ten percent.</span>
(A)	the enforcement of substantially greater budget discipline as that which was originally promised and to keep inflation below ten percent
(B)	the enforcement of substantially greater budget discipline than originally promised and keeping inflation below the ten percent figure
(C)	to enforce substantially greater budget discipline than originally promised and to keep inflation below ten percent
(D)	to enforce substantially greater budget discipline than that which was originally promised and keeping inflation less than the ten percent figure
(E)	to enforce substantially greater budget discipline as that which was originally promised and to keep inflation less than ten percent
---------------------------------
#SC#59 (26)#A#
Analysts believe that whereas bad decisions by elected leaders can certainly hurt the economy, <span style="text-decoration: underline">no administration can really be said to control</span> or manage all of the complex and interrelated forces that determine the nation's economic strength.
(A)	no administration can really be said to control
(B)	no administration can be said that it really controls
(C)	that no administration can really be said to control
(D)	that no administration can really be said that it controls
(E)	that it cannot be said that any administration really controls
---------------------------------
#SC#60 (30)#C#
According to the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles County, <span style="text-decoration: underline">if one were to count the Los Angeles metropolitan area as a separate nation, it would have the worlds eleventh largest gross national product, that is</span> bigger than that of Australia, Mexico, or the Netherlands.
(A)	if one were to count the Los Angeles metropolitan area as a separate nation, it would have the worlds eleventh largest gross national product, that is
(B)	if the Los Angeles metropolitan area is counted as a separate nation, it has the worlds eleventh largest gross national product, that being
(C)	if the Los Angeles metropolitan area were a separate nation, it would have the worlds eleventh largest gross national product,
(D)	were the Los Angeles metropolitan area a separate nation, it will have the worlds eleventh largest gross national product, which is
(E)	when the Los Angeles metropolitan area is counted as a separate nation, it has the worlds eleventh largest gross national product, thus
---------------------------------
#SC#61 (33)#D#
Developed by Pennsylvania's Palatine Germans about 1750, they made Conestoga <span style="text-decoration: underline">wagons with high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie and they had a floor curved upward on either end so as to prevent</span> cargo from shifting on steep grades.
(A)	they made Conestoga wagons with high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie and they had a floor curved upward on either end so as to prevent
(B)	they made Conestoga wagons, which had high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie, and floors curved upward on their ends so that they prevented
(C)	Conestoga wagons, with high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie, and had a floor that was curved upward at both ends to prevent
(D)	Conestoga wagons had high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie, and a floor that was curved upward at both ends to prevent
(E)	Conestoga wagons had high wheels capable of crossing rutted roads, muddy flats, and the nonroads of the prairie and floors curving upward at their ends so that it prevented
---------------------------------
#SC#62 (37)#E#
As a result of record low temperatures, the water pipes on the third floor froze, <span style="text-decoration: underline">which caused the heads of the sprinkler system to burst, which released torrents of water</span> into offices on the second floor.
(A)	which caused the heads of the sprinkler system to burst, which released torrents of water
(B)	which caused the heads of the sprinkler system to burst and which released torrents of water
(C)	which caused the heads of the sprinkler system to burst, torrents of water were then released
(D)	causing heads of sprinkler system to burst, then releasing torrents of water
(E)	causing heads of the sprinkler system to burst and release torrents of water
---------------------------------
#SC#63 (38)#B#
Around 1900, fishermen in the Chesapeake Bay area landed more than seventeen million pounds of shad in a single year, but by 1920, over-fishing and the proliferation of milldams and culverts <span style="text-decoration: underline">that have blocked shad migrations up their spawning streams had reduced landings to less</span> than four million pounds.
(A)	that have blocked shad migrations up their spawning streams had reduced landings to less
(B)	that blocked shad from migrating up their spawning streams had reduced landings to less
(C)	that blocked shad from migrating up their spawning streams reduced landings to a lower amount
(D)	having blocked shad from migrating up their spawning streams reduced landings to less
(E)	having blocked shad migrations up their spawning streams had reduced landings to an amount lower
---------------------------------
#SC#64 (42)#D#
Government officials announced that <span style="text-decoration: underline">restrictions on the use of water would continue because no appreciative increase in the level of the river</span> resulted from the intermittent showers that had fallen throughout the area the day before.
(A)	restrictions on the use of water would continue because no appreciative increase in the level of the river
(B)	restricting the use of water would continue because there had not been any appreciative increase in the river's level that
(C)	the use of water would continue to be restricted because not any appreciable increase in the river's level had
(D)	restrictions on the use of water would continue because no appreciable increase in the level of the river had
(E)	Using water would continue being restricted because not any appreciable increase in the level of the river
---------------------------------
#SC#65 (43)#C#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Because the collagen fibers in skin line up in the direction of tension, surgical cuts made along these so-called Langers lines sever fewer</span> fibers and is less likely to leave an unsightly scar.
(A)	Because the collagen fibers in skin line up in the direction of tension, surgical cuts made along these so-called Langers lines sever fewer
(B)	Because the collagen fibers in skin line up in the direction of tension, a surgical cut having been made along these so-called Langers lines severs less
(C)	Because the collagen fibers in skin line up in the direction of tension, a surgical cut made along these so-called Langers lines severs fewer
(D)	With the collagen fibers in skin lining up in the direction of tension, surgical cuts made along these so-called Langers lines sever less
(E)	With the collagen fibers in skin lining up in the direction of tension, a surgical cut made along these so-called Langers lines sever fewer
---------------------------------
#SC#66 (47)#B#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Though being tiny, blind, and translucent, a recently discovered species of catfish lessens their vulnerability with thickened bones and armor plates on their sides.</span>
(A)	Though being tiny, blind, and translucent, a recently discovered species of catfish lessens their vulnerability with thickened bones and armor plates on their sides.
(B)	Though tiny, blind, and translucent, a recently discovered species of catfish has thickened bones and armor plates on its sides that lessen its vulnerability.
(C)	A recently discovered species of catfish has thickened bones and armor plates on its sides that lessen their vulnerability, though tiny, blind, and translucent.
(D)	Thickened bones and armor plates on their sides lessen the vulnerability of a recently discovered species of catfish that is tiny, blind, and translucent.
(E)	Tiny, blind, and translucent, thickened bones and armor plates on its sides lessen the vulnerability of a recently discovered species of catfish.
---------------------------------
#SC#67 (48)#A#
A recent court decision has qualified a 1998 ruling that workers cannot be laid off <span style="text-decoration: underline">if they have been given reason to believe that their jobs will</span> be safe, provided that their performance remains satisfactory.
(A)	if they have been given reason to believe that their jobs will
(B)	if they are given reason for believing that their jobs would still
(C)	having been given reason for believing that their jobs would
(D)	having been given reason to believe their jobs to
(E)	given reason to believe that their jobs will still
---------------------------------
#SC#68 (50)#D#
Inspired by the Helsinki Accords and outraged by the harsh sentences meted out to a group of Czech rock musicians called the Plastic People of the Universe, <span style="text-decoration: underline">Charter 77 was established by dissident writers, philosophers, and other professionals to be</span> a human rights group.
(A)	Charter 77 was established by dissident writers, philosophers, and other professionals to be
(B)	Charter 77 had been established by dissident writers, philosophers, and other professionals as
(C)	Charter 77 established by dissident writers, philosophers, and other professionals were
(D)	dissidents writers, philosophers, and other professionals established Charter 77 as
(E)	dissidents writers, philosophers, and other professionals had established Charter 77 to be
---------------------------------
#SC#69 (55)#B#
According to research covering the last decade, the average number of rooms added by high-end hotel chains was lower <span style="text-decoration: underline">than what the hotel industry average did for this period, but their occupancy and room rates grew faster than</span> the average hotel.
(A)	than what the hotel industry average did for this period, but their occupancy and room rates grew faster than
(B)	than the hotel industry average for this period, but occupancy and room rates grew faster for these chains than for
(C)	as compared to the hotel industry average for this period, but occupancy and room rates for them grew faster than with
(D)	as compared to what the hotel industry average had been for this period, but occupancy and room rates for these chains grew faster than did
(E)	as compared to the hotel industry average for this period, but their occupancy and room rates grew faster than they did for
---------------------------------
#SC#70 (63)#E#
Many kitchens today are equipped with high-speed electrical gadgets, such as blenders and food processors, <span style="text-decoration: underline">which are able to inflict as serious injuries as those</span> caused by an industrial wood-planing machine.
(A)	which are able to inflict as serious injuries as those
(B)	which can inflict serious injuries such as those
(C)	inflicting injuries as serious as that having been
(D)	capable to inflict injuries as serious as that
(E)	capable of inflicting injuries as serious as those
---------------------------------
#SC#71 (65)#A#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">The computer company reported strong second-quarter earnings that surpassed Wall Streets estimates and announced the first in a series of price cuts intended to increase sales further.</span>
(A)	The computer company reported strong second-quarter earnings that surpassed Wall Streets estimates and announced the first in a series of price cuts intended to increase sales further.
(B)	The report of the computer company showed strong second-quarter earnings, surpassing Wall Streets estimates, and they announced the first in a series of price cuts that they intend to increase sales further.
(C)	Surpassing Wall Streets estimates, the report of the computer company showed strong second-quarter earnings, and, for the purpose of increasing sales further, they announced the first in a series of price cuts.
(D)	The computer company reported strong second-quarter earnings, while announcing the first in a series of price cuts for the purpose of increasing sales further that surpass Wall Streets estimates.
(E)	The computer company, surpassing Wall Streets estimates, reported strong second-quarter earnings, while announcing that to increase sales further, there would be the first in a series of price cuts
---------------------------------
#SC#72 (73)#D#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Less than 400 Sumatran rhinos survive on the Malay peninsula and on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo, and they occupy a small fraction of the species former range.</span>
(A)	Less than 400 Sumatran rhinos survive on the Malay peninsula and on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo, and they occupy a small fraction of the species former range.
(B)	Less than 400 Sumatran rhinos, surviving on the Malay peninsula and on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo, occupy a small fraction of the species former range.
(C)	Occupying a small fraction of the species former range, the Malay peninsula and the islands of Sumatra and Borneo are where fewer than 400 Sumatran rhinos survive.
(D)	Occupying a small fraction of the species former range, fewer than 400 Sumatran rhinos survive on the Malay peninsula and on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo.
(E)	Surviving on the Malay peninsula and on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo, less than 400 Sumatran rhinos occupy a small fraction of the species former range.
---------------------------------
#SC#73 (80)#D#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Until 1868 and Disraeli, Great Britain had no prime ministers not coming</span> from a landed family.
(A)	Until 1868 and Disraeli, Great Britain had no prime ministers not coming
(B)	Until 1868 and Disraeli, Great Britain had had no prime ministers who have not come
(C)	Until Disraeli in 1868, there were no prime ministers in Great Britain who have not come
(D)	It was not until 1868 that Great Britain had a prime ministerDisraeliwho did not come
(E)	It was only in 1868 and Disraeli that Great Britain had one of its prime ministers not coming
---------------------------------
#SC#74 (92)#C#
According to United States census data, <span style="text-decoration: underline">while there was about one-third of mothers with young children working outside the home in 1975, in 2000, almost two-thirds of those mothers were employed outside the home.</span>
(A)	while there was about one-third of mothers with young children working outside the home in 1975, in 2000, almost two-thirds of those mothers were employed outside the home
(B)	there were about one-third of mothers with young children who worked outside the home in 1975; in 2000, almost two-thirds of those mothers were employed outside the home
(C)	in 1975 about one-third of mothers with young children worked outside the home; in 2000, almost two-thirds of such mothers were employed outside the home
(D)	even though in 1975 there were about one-third of mothers with young children who worked outside the home, almost two-thirds of such mothers were employed outside the home in 2000
(E)	with about one-third of mothers with young children working outside the home in 1975, almost two-thirds of such mothers were employed outside the home in 2000
---------------------------------
#SC#75 (99)#C#
<span style="text-decoration: underline">In preparation for the prediction of a major earthquake that will hit the state, a satellite-based computer network is being built by the California Office of Emergency Services for identifying</span> earthquake damage and to pinpoint the most affected areas within two hours of the event.
(A)	In preparation for the prediction of a major earthquake that will hit the state, a satellite-based computer network is being built by the California Office of Emergency Services for identifying
(B)	In preparing for the prediction that a major earthquake will hit the state, the California Office of Emergency Services is building a satellite-based computer network that will identify
(C)	In preparing for a major earthquake that is predicted to hit the state, the California Office of Emergency Services is building a satellite-based computer network to identify
(D)	To prepare for the prediction of a major earthquake hitting the state, a satellite-based computer network is being built by the California Office of Emergency Services to identify
(E)	To prepare for a major earthquake that is predicted to hit the state, the California Office of Emergency Services is building a satellite-based computer network that will identify
---------------------------------
#SC#76 (103)#A#
Created in 1945 to reduce poverty and stabilize foreign currency markets, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have, according to some critics, <span style="text-decoration: underline">continually struggled to meet the expectations of their major shareholdersa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationsbut neglected</span> their intended beneficiaries in the developing world.
(A)	continually struggled to meet the expectations of their major shareholdersa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationsbut neglected
(B)	continually struggled as they try to meet the expectations of their major shareholdersa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationswhile neglecting that of
(C)	continually struggled to meet their major shareholders expectationsa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationsbut neglected that of
(D)	had to struggle continually in trying to meet the expectations of their major shareholdersa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationswhile neglecting that of
(E)	struggled continually in trying to meet their major shareholders expectationsa group comprising many of the worlds rich nationsand neglecting
---------------------------------
