####42#VR18
#RC#1 (5)#A#100
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
All of the following are mentioned as ways of controlling the magnitude of structural unemployment EXCEPT
(A)	using public funds to create jobs
(B)	teaching new skills to displaced workers
(C)	allowing displaced workers to retire
(D)	controlling the movement of capital
(E)	encouraging workers to move to where jobs are available
---------------------------------
#RC#2 (6)#C#200
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
The passage suggests that a potential outcome of higher structural unemployment is
(A)	increased public spending for social services
(B)	placement of workers in jobs for which they are not qualified
(C)	higher wages for those workers who have skills that are in demand
(D)	an increase in the length of time jobs remain unfilled
(E)	a shift in the government’s economic policy priorities
---------------------------------
#RC#3 (7)#D#300
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
It can be inferred from the passage that even when there are unemployed workers, labor shortages are still likely to occur if
(A)	the inflation rate is unusually high
(B)	there is insufficient technological innovation
(C)	the level of structural unemployment is exceptionally low
(D)	the jobs available in certain places require skills that the labor force in those areas lacks
(E)	the workers in some industries are dissatisfied with the pay offered in those industries
---------------------------------
#RC#4 (8)#B#400
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
The passage suggests that the phenomenon of combined unemployment and inflation is
(A)	a socioeconomic problem that can only be addressed by government intervention
(B)	a socioeconomic problem that can be characteristic of periods of structural unemployment
(C)	an economic problem that results from government intervention in management-labor relations
(D)	an economic problem that results from imperfect applications of technology
(E)	an economic problem that can be eliminated by relatively small changes in the labor force
---------------------------------
#RC#5 (9)#C#500
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
The passage is primarily concerned with
(A)	clarifying the definition of a concept
(B)	proposing a way to eliminate an undesirable condition
(C)	discussing the sources and consequences of a problem
(D)	suggesting ways to alleviate the effects of a particular social policy
(E)	evaluating the steps that have been taken to correct an imbalance
---------------------------------
#RC#6 (10)#D#600
Structural unemployment—the unemployment that remains even at the peak of the economy’s upswings—is caused by an imbalance between the types and locations of available employment on the one hand and the qualifications and locations of workers on the other hand. When such an imbalance exists, both labor shortages and unemployment may occur, despite a balance between supply and demand for labor in the economy as a whole.<br><br>Because technological change is likely to displace some workers, it is a major factor in producing structural unemployment. While technological advance almost invariably results in shifts in demands for different types of workers, it does not necessarily result in unemployment. Relatively small or gradual changes in demand are likely to cause little unemployment. In the individual firm or even in the labor market as a whole, normal attrition may be sufficient to reduce the size of the work force in the affected occupations. Relatively large or rapid changes, however, can cause serious problems. Workers may lose their jobs and find themselves without the skills necessary to obtain new jobs. Whether this displacement leads to structural unemployment depends on the amount of public and private sector resources devoted to retraining and placing those workers. Workers can be encouraged to move where there are jobs, to reeducate or retrain themselves, or to retire. In addition, other factors affecting structural unemployment, such as capital movement, can be controlled.<br><br>Increased structural unemployment, should it occur, makes it difficult for the economy to achieve desired low rates of unemployment along with low rates of inflation. If there is a growing pool of workers who lack the necessary skills for the available jobs, increases in total labor demand will rapidly generate shortages of qualified workers. As the wages of those workers are bid up, labor costs, and thus prices, rise. This phenomenon may be an important factor in the rising trend, observed for the past two decades, of unemployment combined with inflation. Government policy has placed a priority on reducing inflation, but these efforts have nevertheless caused unemployment to increase.
According to the passage, small downward shifts in the demand for labor will not usually cause unemployment because
(A)	such shifts are frequently accompanied by upswings in the economy
(B)	such shifts usually occur slowly
(C)	workers can be encouraged to move to where there are jobs
(D)	normal attrition is often sufficient to reduce the size of the work force
(E)	workers are usually flexible enough to learn new skills and switch to new jobs
---------------------------------
#RC#7 (54)#C#700
Determining whether a given population of animals constitutes a distinct species can be difficult because no single accepted definition of the term exists. One approach, called the biological species concept, bases the definition on reproductive compatibility. According to this view, a species is a group of animals that can mate with one another to produce fertile offspring but cannot mate successfully with members of a different group. Yet this idea can be too restrictive. First, mating between groups labeled as different species (hybridization), as often occurs in the canine family, is quite common in nature. Second, sometimes the differences between two populations might not prevent them from interbreeding, even though they are dissimilar in traits unrelated to reproduction; some biologists question whether such disparate groups should be considered a single species. A third problem with the biological species concept is that investigators cannot always determine whether two groups that live in different places are capable of interbreeding.<br><br>When the biological species concept is difficult to apply, some investigators use phenotype, an organism’s observable characteristics, instead. Two groups that have evolved separately are likely to display measurable differences in many of their traits, such as skull size or width of teeth. If the distribution of measurements from one group does not overlap with those of another, the two groups might reasonably be considered distinct species.
The passage is primarily concerned with
(A)	describing the development of the biological species concept
(B)	responding to a critique of reproductive compatibility as a criterion for defining a species
(C)	considering two different approaches to identifying biological species
(D)	pointing out the advantage of one method of distinguishing related species
(E)	identifying an obstacle to the classification of biological species
---------------------------------
#RC#8 (55)#C#800
Determining whether a given population of animals constitutes a distinct species can be difficult because no single accepted definition of the term exists. One approach, called the biological species concept, bases the definition on reproductive compatibility. According to this view, a species is a group of animals that can mate with one another to produce fertile offspring but cannot mate successfully with members of a different group. Yet this idea can be too restrictive. First, mating between groups labeled as different species (hybridization), as often occurs in the canine family, is quite common in nature. Second, sometimes the differences between two populations might not prevent them from interbreeding, even though they are dissimilar in traits unrelated to reproduction; some biologists question whether such disparate groups should be considered a single species. A third problem with the biological species concept is that investigators cannot always determine whether two <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>groups that live in different places</span></strong> are capable of interbreeding.<br><br>When the biological species concept is difficult to apply, some investigators use phenotype, an organism’s observable characteristics, instead. Two groups that have evolved separately are likely to display measurable differences in many of their traits, such as skull size or width of teeth. If the distribution of measurements from one group does not overlap with those of another, the two groups might reasonably be considered distinct species.
The author of the passage mentions “groups that live in different places” most probably in order to
(A)	point out a theoretical inconsistency in the biological species concept
(B)	offer evidence in support of the biological species concept
(C)	identify an obstacle to the application of the biological species concept
(D)	note an instance in which phenotype classification is customarily used
(E)	describe an alternative to the biological species concept
---------------------------------
#RC#9 (56)#A#900
Determining whether a given population of animals constitutes a distinct species can be difficult because no single accepted definition of the term exists. One approach, called the biological species concept, bases the definition on reproductive compatibility. According to this view, a species is a group of animals that can mate with one another to produce fertile offspring but cannot mate successfully with members of a different group. Yet this idea can be too restrictive. First, mating between groups labeled as different species (hybridization), as often occurs in the canine family, is quite common in nature. Second, sometimes the differences between two populations might not prevent them from interbreeding, even though they are dissimilar in traits unrelated to reproduction; some biologists question whether such disparate groups should be considered a single species. A third problem with the biological species concept is that investigators cannot always determine whether two groups that live in different places are capable of interbreeding.<br><br>When the biological species concept is difficult to apply, some investigators use phenotype, an organism’s observable characteristics, instead. Two groups that have evolved separately are likely to display measurable differences in many of their traits, such as skull size or width of teeth. If the distribution of measurements from one group does not overlap with those of another, the two groups might reasonably be considered distinct species.
With which of the following statements regarding the classification of individual species would the author most likely agree?
(A)	Phenotype comparison may help to classify species when application of the biological species concept proves inconclusive.
(B)	Because no standard definition exists for what constitutes a species, the classification of animal populations is inevitably an arbitrary process.
(C)	The criteria used by biologists to classify species have not been based on adequate research.
(D)	The existence of hybrids in wild animal species is the chief factor casting doubt on the usefulness of research into reproductive compatibility as a way of classifying species.
(E)	Phenotype overlap should be used as the basic criterion for standardizing species classification.
---------------------------------
#RC#10 (57)#B#1000
Determining whether a given population of animals constitutes a distinct species can be difficult because no single accepted definition of the term exists. One approach, called the biological species concept, bases the definition on reproductive compatibility. According to this view, a species is a group of animals that can mate with one another to produce fertile offspring but cannot mate successfully with members of a different group. Yet this idea can be too restrictive. <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>First, mating between groups labeled as different species (hybridization), as often occurs in the canine family, is quite common in nature.</span></strong> Second, sometimes the differences between two populations might not prevent them from interbreeding, even though they are dissimilar in traits unrelated to reproduction; some biologists question whether such disparate groups should be considered a single species. A third problem with the biological species concept is that investigators cannot always determine whether two groups that live in different places are capable of interbreeding.<br><br>When the biological species concept is difficult to apply, some investigators use phenotype, an organism’s observable characteristics, instead. Two groups that have evolved separately are likely to display measurable differences in many of their traits, such as skull size or width of teeth. If the distribution of measurements from one group does not overlap with those of another, the two groups might reasonably be considered distinct species.
Which of the following best describes the function of the highlighted sentence?
(A)	It elaborates the definition of the biological species concept given in a previous sentence.
(B)	It develops a point about the biological species concept made in the previous sentence.
(C)	It states the author’s central point about the biological species concept.
(D)	It identifies a central assumption underlying the biological species concept.
(E)	It demonstrates why the biological species concept is invalid.
---------------------------------
#RC#11 (89)#D#1100
Antonia Castañeda has utilized scholarship from women’s studies and Mexican-American history to examine nineteenth-century literary portrayals of Mexican women. As Castañeda notes, scholars of women’s history observe that in the United States, male novelists of the period—during which, according to these scholars, women’s traditional economic role in home-based agriculture was threatened by the transition to a factory-based industrial economy — define women solely in their domestic roles of wife and mother. Castañeda finds that during the same period that saw non-Hispanic women being economically displaced by industrialization, Hispanic law in territorial California protected the economic position of “Californianas” (the Mexican women of the territory) by ensuring them property rights and inheritance rights equal to those of males.<br><br>For Castañeda, the laws explain a stereotypical plot created primarily by male, non-Hispanic novelists: the story of an ambitious non-Hispanic merchant or trader desirous of marrying an elite Californiana. These novels’ favorable portrayal of such women is noteworthy, since Mexican-American historians have concluded that unflattering literary depictions of Mexicans were vital in rallying the United States public’s support for the Mexican-American War (1846–1848). The importance of economic alliances forged through marriages with Californianas explains this <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>apparent contradiction</span></strong>. Because of their real-life economic significance, the Californianas were portrayed more favorably than were others of the same nationality.
The “apparent contradiction” mentioned refers to the discrepancy between the
(A)	legal status of Mexican women in territorial California and their status in the United States
(B)	unflattering depiction of Mexicans in novels and the actual public sentiment about the Mexican-American War
(C)	existence of many marriages between Californianas and non-Hispanic merchants and the strictures against them expressed in novels
(D)	literary depiction of elite Californianas and the literary depiction of other Mexican individuals
(E)	novelistic portrayals of elite Californianas’ privileged lives and the actual circumstances of those lives
---------------------------------
#RC#12 (90)#A#1200
Antonia Castañeda has utilized scholarship from women’s studies and Mexican-American history to examine nineteenth-century literary portrayals of Mexican women. As Castañeda notes, scholars of women’s history observe that in the United States, male novelists of the period—during which, according to these scholars, women’s traditional economic role in home-based agriculture was threatened by the transition to a factory-based industrial economy — define women solely in their domestic roles of wife and mother. Castañeda finds that during the same period that saw non-Hispanic women being economically displaced by industrialization, Hispanic law in territorial California protected the economic position of “Californianas” (the Mexican women of the territory) by ensuring them property rights and inheritance rights equal to those of males.<br><br>For Castañeda, the laws explain a stereotypical plot created primarily by male, non-Hispanic novelists: the story of an ambitious non-Hispanic merchant or trader desirous of marrying an elite Californiana. These novels’ favorable portrayal of such women is noteworthy, since Mexican-American historians have concluded that unflattering literary depictions of Mexicans were vital in rallying the United States public’s support for the Mexican-American War (1846–1848). The importance of economic alliances forged through marriages with Californianas explains this apparent contradiction. Because of their real-life economic significance, the Californianas were portrayed more favorably than were others of the same nationality.
Which of the following could best serve as an example of the kind of fictional plot discussed by Antonia Castañeda?
(A)	A land speculator of English ancestry weds the daughter of a Mexican vineyard owner after the speculator has migrated to California to seek his fortune.
(B)	A Californian woman of Hispanic ancestry finds that her agricultural livelihood is threatened when her husband is forced to seek work in a textile mill.
(C)	A Mexican rancher who loses his land as a result of the Mexican-American War migrates to the northern United States and marries an immigrant schoolteacher.
(D)	A wealthy Californiana whose father has bequeathed her all his property contends with avaricious relatives for her inheritance.
(E)	A poor married couple emigrate from French Canada and gradually become wealthy as merchants in territorial California.
---------------------------------
#RC#13 (91)#C#1300
Antonia Castañeda has utilized scholarship from women’s studies and Mexican-American history to examine nineteenth-century literary portrayals of Mexican women. As Castañeda notes, scholars of women’s history observe that in the United States, male novelists of the period—during which, according to these scholars, women’s traditional economic role in home-based agriculture was threatened by the transition to a factory-based industrial economy — define women solely in their domestic roles of wife and mother. Castañeda finds that during the same period that saw non-Hispanic women being economically displaced by industrialization, Hispanic law in territorial California protected the economic position of “Californianas” (the Mexican women of the territory) by ensuring them property rights and inheritance rights equal to those of males.<br><br>For Castañeda, the laws explain a <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>stereotypical plot</span></strong> created primarily by male, non-Hispanic novelists: the story of an ambitious non-Hispanic merchant or trader desirous of marrying an elite Californiana. These novels’ favorable portrayal of such women is noteworthy, since Mexican-American historians have concluded that unflattering literary depictions of Mexicans were vital in rallying the United States public’s support for the Mexican-American War (1846–1848). The importance of economic alliances forged through marriages with Californianas explains this apparent contradiction. Because of their real-life economic significance, the Californianas were portrayed more favorably than were others of the same nationality.
Which of the following, if true, would provide the most support for Castañeda’s explanation of the “stereotypical plot” highlighted?
(A)	Non-Hispanic traders found business more profitable in California while it was a territory than when it became a state.
(B)	Very few marriages between Hispanic women and non-Hispanic men in nineteenth-century territorial California have actually been documented.
(C)	Records from the nineteenth century indicate that some large and valuable properties were owned by elite Californianas in their own right.
(D)	Unmarried non-Hispanic women in the nineteenth-century United States were sometimes able to control property in their own right.
(E)	Most of the property in nineteenth-century territorial California was controlled by Hispanic men.
---------------------------------
#CR#14 (112)#A#100
Editorial: Consumers in North America think that by drinking frozen concentrated orange juice, they are saving energy, because it takes fewer truckloads to transport it than it takes to transport an equivalent amount of not-from-concentrate juice. But they are mistaken, for the amount of energy required to concentrate the juice is far greater than the energy difference in the juices’ transport.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would provide the greatest additional support for the editorial’s conclusion?
(A)	Freezer trucks use substantially more energy per mile driven than do any other types of trucks.
(B)	Frozen juice can be stored for several years, while not-from-concentrate juice lasts a much shorter time.
(C)	Oranges grown in Brazil make up an increasing percentage of the fruit used in not-from-concentrate juice production.
(D)	A serving of not-from-concentrate juice takes up to six times more space than a serving of frozen concentrated juice.
(E)	Though frozen concentrated juice must be kept at a lower temperature, not-from-concentrate juice is far more sensitive to small temperature fluctuations.
---------------------------------
#CR#15 (141)#C#200
While the total enrollment of public elementary and secondary schools in Sondland is one percent higher this academic year than last academic year, the number of teachers there increased by three percent. Thus, the Sondland Education Commission's prediction of a teacher shortage as early as next academic year is unfounded.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the claim that the prediction of a teacher shortage as early as next academic year is unfounded?
(A)	Funding for public elementary schools in Sondland is expected to increase over the next ten years.
(B)	Average salaries for Sondland’s teachers increased at the rate of inflation from last academic year to this academic year.
(C)	A new law has mandated that there be ten percent more teachers per pupil in Sondland’s public schools next academic year than there were this academic year.
(D)	In the past, increases in enrollments in public elementary and secondary schools in Sondland have generally been smaller than increases in the number of teachers.
(E)	Because of reductions in funding, the number of students enrolling in teacher-training programs in Sondland is expected to decline beginning in the next academic year.
---------------------------------
#CR#16 (144)#A#300
Archaeologists working in the Andes Mountains recently excavated a buried 4,000-year-old temple containing structures that align with a stone carving on a distant hill to indicate the direction of the rising sun at the summer solstice. Alignments in the temple were also found to point toward the position, at the summer solstice, of a constellation known in Andean culture as the Fox. Since the local mythology represents the fox as teaching people how to cultivate and irrigate plants, the ancient Andeans may have built the temple as a religious representation of the fox.<br><br>Which of the following is an assumption on which the argument is based?
(A)	The constellation known as the Fox has the same position at the summer solstice as it did 4,000 years ago.
(B)	In the region around the temple, the summer solstice marks the time for planting.
(C)	The temple was protected from looters by dirt and debris built up over thousands of years.
(D)	Other structural alignments at the temple point to further constellations with agricultural significance.
(E)	The site containing the temple was occupied for a significant amount of time before abandonment.
---------------------------------
#CR#17 (154)#A#400
A certain species of desert lizard digs tunnels in which to lay its eggs. The eggs must must incubate inside the tunnel for several weeks before hatching, and they fail to hatch if they are disturbed at any time during this incubation period. Yet these lizard guard their tunnels for only a few days after laying their eggs.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps explain why there is no need for lizards to guard their tunnels for more than a few days?
(A)	The eggs are at risk of being disturbed only during the brief egg-laying season when many lizards are digging in a relatively small area.
(B)	The length of the incubation period varies somewhat from one tunnel to another.
(C)	Each female lizard lays from 15 to 20 eggs, only about 10 of which hatch even if the eggs are not disturbed at any time during the incubation period.
(D)	The temperature and humidity within the tunnels will not be suitable for the incubating eggs unless the tunnels are plugged with sand immediately after the eggs are laid.
(E)	The only way to disturb the eggs of this lizard species is by opening up one of the tunnels in which they are laid.
---------------------------------
#CR#18 (161)#D#500
Which of the following most logically completes the argument? <br><br>A photograph of the night sky was taken with the camera shutter open for an extended period. The normal motion of stars across the sky caused the images of the stars in the photograph to appear as streaks. However, one bright spot was not streaked. Even if the spot were caused, as astronomers believe, by a celestial object, that object could still have been moving across the sky during the time the shutter was open, since __________.
(A)	the spot was not the brightest object in the photograph 
(B)	the photograph contains many streaks that astronomers can identify as caused by noncelestial objects 
(C)	stars in the night sky do not appear to shift position relative to each other 
(D)	the spot could have been caused by an object that emitted a flash that lasted for only a fraction of the time that the camera shutter was open 
(E)	if the camera shutter had not been open for an extended period, it would have recorded substantially fewer celestial objects
---------------------------------
#CR#19 (162)#B#600
<strong>Economist</strong>: Paying extra for fair-trade coffee — coffee labeled with the Fairtrade logo — is intended to help poor farmers, because they receive a higher price for the fair-trade coffee they grow. But this practice may hurt more farmers in developing nations than it helps. By raising average prices for coffee, it encourages more coffee to be produced than consumers want to buy. This lowers prices for non-fair-trade coffee and thus lowers profits for non-fair-trade coffee farmers.<br><br>To evaluate the strength of the economist's argument, it would be the most helpful to know which of the following?
(A)	Whether there is a way of alleviating the impact of the increased average prices for coffee on non-fair-trade coffee farmers' profits
(B)	What proportion of coffee farmers in developing nations produce fair-trade coffee
(C)	Whether many coffee farmers in developing nations also derive income from other kinds of farming
(D)	Whether consumers should pay extra for fair-trade coffee if doing so lowers profits for non-fair-trade coffee farmers
(E)	How fair-trade coffee farmers in developing nations could be helped without lowering profits for non-fair-trade coffee farmers
---------------------------------
#CR#20 (166)#D#700
<strong>Jay</strong>: Of course there are many good reasons to support the expansion of preventive medical care, but arguments claiming that it will lead to greater societal economic gains are misguided. Some of the greatest societal expenses arise from frequent urgent-care needs for people who have attained a long life due to preventive care.<br><br><strong>Sunil</strong>: Your argument fails because you neglect economic gains outside the health care system: society suffers an economic loss when any of its productive members suffer from preventable illness.<br><br>Sunil's response to Jay makes which of the following assumptions?
(A)	Those who receive preventive care are not more likely to need urgent care than are those who do not receive preventive care
(B)	Jay intends the phrase "economic gains" to refer only to gains accruing to institutions within the health care system.
(C)	Productive members of society are more likely than others to suffer preventable illnesses.
(D) The economic contributions of those who receive preventive medical care may outweigh the economic losses caused by preventive care.
(E)	Jay is incorrect in stating that patients who receive preventive medical care are long-lived.
---------------------------------
#CR#21 (173)#A#800
<strong>Urban planner</strong>: When a city loses population due to migration, property taxes in that city tend to rise. This is because there are then fewer residents paying to maintain an infrastructure that was designed to support more people. Rising property taxes, in turn, drive more residents away, compounding the problem. Since the city of Stonebridge is starting to lose population, the city government should therefore refrain from raising property taxes.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would most weaken the urban planner's argument?
(A)	If Stonebridge does not raise taxes on its residents to maintain its infrastructure, the city will become much less attractive to live in as that infrastructure decays.
(B)	Stonebridge at present benefits from grants provided by the national government to help maintain certain parts of its infrastructure.
(C)	If there is a small increase in property taxes in Stonebridge and a slightly larger proportion of total revenue than at present is allocated to infrastructure maintenance, the funding will be adequate for that purpose.
(D)	Demographers project that the population of a region that includes Stonebridge will start to increase substantially within the next several years.
(E)	The property taxes in Stonebridge are significantly lower than those in many larger cities.
---------------------------------
#CR#22 (175)#A#900
The use of growth-promoting antibiotics in hog farming can weaken their effectiveness in treating humans because such use can spread resistance to those antibiotics among microorganisms. But now the Smee company, one of the largest pork marketers, may stop buying pork raised on feed containing these antibiotics. Smee has 60 percent of the pork market, and farmers who sell to Smee would certainly stop using the antibiotics in order to avoid jeopardizing their sales. So if Smee makes this change, it will probably significantly slow the decline in antibiotics' effectiveness for humans.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would most strengthen the argument above?
(A)	Other major pork marketers will probably stop buying pork raised on feed containing growth-promoting antibiotics if Smee no longer buys such pork.
(B)	The decline in hog growth due to discontinuation of antibiotics can be offset by improved hygiene.
(C)	Authorities are promoting the use of antibiotics to which microorganisms have not yet developed resistance.
(D)	A phase-out of use of antibiotics for hogs in one country reduced usage by over 50 percent over five years
(E)	If Smee stops buying pork raised with antibiotics, the firm's cost will probably increase.
---------------------------------
#CR#23 (179)#D#1000
Typically during thunderstorms most lightning strikes carry a negative electric charge; only a few carry a positive charge. Thunderstorms with unusually high proportions of positive-charge strikes tend to occur in smoky areas near forest fires. The fact that smoke carries positively charged smoke particles into the air above a fire suggests the hypothesis that the extra positive strikes occur because of the presence of such particles in the storm clouds.<br><br>Which of the following, if discovered to be true, most seriously undermines the hypothesis?
(A)	Other kinds of rare lightning also occur with unusually high frequency in the vicinity of forest fires.
(B)	The positive-charge strikes that occur near forest fires tend to be no more powerful than positive strikes normally are.
(C)	A positive-charge strike is as likely to start a forest fire as a negative charge strike is.
(D)	Thunderstorms that occur in drifting clouds of smoke have extra positive-charge strikes weeks after the charge of the smoke particles has dissipated.
(E)	The total number of lightning strikes during a thunderstorm is usually within the normal range in the vicinity of a forest fire.
---------------------------------
#CR#24 (182)#C#1100
<strong>Psychologist</strong>: In a study, researchers gave 100 volunteers a psychological questionnaire designed to measure their self-esteem. The researchers then asked each volunteer to rate the strength of his or her own social skills. The volunteers with the highest levels of self-esteem consistently rated themselves as having much better social skills than did the volunteers with moderate levels. This suggests that attaining an exceptionally high level of self-esteem greatly improves one’s social skills.<br><br>The psychologist’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on which of the following grounds?
(A)	It fails to adequately address the possibility that many of the volunteers may not have understood what the psychological questionnaire was designed to measure.
(B)	It takes for granted that the volunteers with the highest levels of self-esteem had better social skills than did the other volunteers, even before the former volunteers had attained their high levels of self-esteem.
(C)	It overlooks the possibility that people with very high levels of self-esteem may tend to have a less accurate perception of the strength of their own social skills than do people with moderate levels of self-esteem.
(D)	It relies on evidence from a group of volunteers that is too small to provide any support for any inferences regarding people in general.
(E)	It overlooks the possibility that factors other than level of self-esteem may be of much greater importance in determining the strength of one’s social skills.
---------------------------------
#CR#25 (187)#C#1200
<strong>Music critic</strong>: Fewer and fewer musicians are studying classical music, decreasing the likelihood that those with real aptitude for such music will be performing it. Audiences who hear these performances will not appreciate classical music’s greatness and will thus decamp to other genres. So to maintain classical music’s current meager popularity, we must encourage more young musicians to enter the field.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most weakens the music critic’s reasoning?
(A)	Musicians who choose to study classical music do so because they believe they have an aptitude for the music.
(B)	Classical music’s current meager popularity is attributable to the profusion of other genres of music available to listeners.
(C)	Most people who appreciate classical music come to do so through old recordings rather than live performances.
(D)	It is possible to enjoy the music in a particular genre even when it is performed by musicians who are not ideally suited for that genre.
(E)	The continued popularity of a given genre of music depends in part on the audiences being able to understand why that genre attained its original popularity.
---------------------------------
#SC#26 (198)#E#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Studying skeletons unearthed near Rome, DNA evidence was recovered by scientists, who were able to deduce from this</span> that an epidemic of malaria struck in the empire’s waning days.
(A)	Studying skeletons unearthed near Rome, DNA evidence was recovered by scientists, who were able to deduce from this
(B)	In studying skeletons unearthed near Rome, DNA evidence was recovered by scientists, who were able to deduce from this
(C)	Scientists recovered DNA evidence from studying skeletons unearthed near Rome, being able to deduce from this
(D)	Skeletons unearthed near Rome allowed scientists to recover DNA evidence, and they were able to deduce from it
(E)	Scientists studying skeletons unearthed near Rome recovered DNA evidence from which they were able to deduce
---------------------------------
#SC#27 (202)#E#200
Recently declassified information from military satellites in orbit thousands of miles above the Earth <span style="text-decoration: underline">show the planet continually bombarded by</span> large meteoroids that explode with the power of atomic bomb blasts.
(A)	show the planet continually bombarded by
(B)	show continual bombarding of the planet by
(C)	show a continual bombardment of the planet from
(D)	shows continually that the planet is bombarded from
(E)	shows that the planet is continually bombarded by
---------------------------------
#SC#28 (204)#C#300
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Child development specialists believe that, in confining babies much of the time to strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers, muscle development can be inhibited.</span>
(A)	that, in confining babies much of the time to strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers, muscle development can be inhibited
(B)	that, in their confinement much of the time to strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers, muscle development can be inhibited in babies
(C)	that confining babies much of the time to strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers can inhibit muscle development
(D)	that babies, if confined much of the time to strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers can inhibit muscle development
(E)	that strollers, high chairs, playpens, and walkers can, if babies are confined to the much of the time, result in muscle development being inhibited
---------------------------------
#SC#29 (207)#A#400
In 1776 Adam Smith wrote that it is young people <span style="text-decoration: underline">who have</span> “the contempt of risk and the presumptuous hope of success” needed to found new businesses.
(A)	who have
(B)	with
(C)	having
(D)	who are those with
(E)	who are the ones to have
---------------------------------
#SC#30 (209)#E#500
In his Uses of Enchantment (1976), <span style="text-decoration: underline">it was psychologist Bruno Bettelheim’s assertion that the apparently cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales actually are</span> an instructive reflection of a child’s natural and necessary “killing off” of successive phases in his or her own development.
(A)	it was psychologist Bruno Bettelheim’s assertion that the apparently cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales actually are
(B)	it was the assertion of psychologist Bruno Bettelheim that what is apparently the cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales actually is
(C)	psychologist Bruno Bettelheim’s assertion that what is apparently the cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales actually is
(D)	psychologist Bruno Bettelheim asserted that the apparently cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales actually are
(E)	psychologist Bruno Bettelheim asserted that the apparently cruel and arbitrary nature of many fairy tales is actually
---------------------------------
#SC#31 (211)#D#600
<span style="text-decoration: underline">A new satellite sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles is called POLAR, giving scientists their best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field.</span>
(A)	A new satellite sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles is called POLAR, giving scientists their best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field.
(B)	A new satellite called POLAR that is giving scientists their best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field, sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles.
(C)	Scientists are getting their best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field, from a new satellite sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles called POLAR.
(D)	Sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles, a new satellite called POLAR is giving scientists their best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field.
(E)	Sweeping over the poles at altitudes of up to 32,000 miles, scientists’ best look yet at the magnetosphere, the region of space under the invisible influence of Earth’s magnetic field, is coming from a new satellite called POLAR.
---------------------------------
#SC#32 (212)#B#700
The treasury market dropped in response to a decrease in the value of the dollar and to continued concern <span style="text-decoration: underline">that the economy might be growing as fast as</span> to accelerate inflation and drive interest rates higher.
(A)	that the economy might be growing as fast as
(B)	that the economy might be growing fast enough
(C)	with the economy’s possibly growing so fast as
(D)	with the possibility of the economy growing fast enough so as
(E)	with the possibility of the economy possibly growing fast enough
---------------------------------
#SC#33 (220)#C#800
In early Mesopotamian civilization, castor oil served <span style="text-decoration: underline">not only as a laxative, but also a skin-softening lotion and it was a construction</span> lubricant for sliding giant stone blocks over wooden rollers.
(A)	not only as a laxative, but also a skin-softening lotion and it was a construction
(B)	as not only a laxative, but also a skin-softening lotion, and it was a construction
(C)	not only as a laxative but also as a skin-softening lotion and as a construction
(D)	as not only a laxative but as a skin-softening lotion and in construction, as a
(E)	not only as a laxative, but a skin-softening lotion and in construction, a
---------------------------------
#SC#34 (267)#C#900
Kudzu, an Asian vine <span style="text-decoration: underline">that has grown rampantly in the southern United States since introducing it in the 1920s to thwart</span> soil erosion, has overrun many houses and countless acres of roadside.
(A)	that has grown rampantly in the southern United States since introducing it in the 1920s to thwart
(B)	that has grown rampantly in the southern United States, since it was introduced in the 1920s for thwarting
(C)	that has grown rampant in the southern United States since it was introduced in the 1920s to thwart
(D)	growing rampant in the southern United States since introducing it in the 1920s for thwarting
(E)	growing rampantly in the southern United States, since it was introduced in the 1920s to thwart
---------------------------------
#SC#35 (268)#D#1000
Unable to build nests or care for their young, <span style="text-decoration: underline">a female cowbird lays up to 40 eggs a year in the nests of other birds, including</span> warblers, vireos, flycatchers, and thrushes.
(A)	a female cowbird lays up to 40 eggs a year in the nests of other birds, including
(B)	a female cowbird will use the nests of other birds to lay up to 40 eggs a year, including those of
(C)	female cowbirds use the nests of other birds to lay up to 40 eggs a year, including those of
(D)	female cowbirds lay up to 40 eggs a year in the nests of other birds, including
(E)	up to 40 eggs a year are laid by female cowbirds in the nests of other birds, including
---------------------------------
#SC#36 (270)#D#1100
In many of the world’s regions, increasing pressure on water resources has resulted <span style="text-decoration: underline">both from expanding development, changes in climate, and from pollution, so that the future supply in some of the more arid areas is a concern going forward.</span>
(A)	both from expanding development, changes in climate, and from pollution, so that the future supply in some of the more arid areas is a concern going forward
(B)	both from expanding development or changes in climate, and pollution, so that future supplies in some of the more arid areas are a concern
(C)	from expanding development, changes in climate, and also from pollution, so that the future supply in some of the more arid areas is a matter of concern going forward
(D)	from expanding development, changes in climate, and pollution, so that future supplies in some of the more arid areas are a concern
(E)	from expansion of development, changes in climate, and from pollution, so that supplies in some of the more arid areas are a future concern
---------------------------------
#SC#37 (274)#E#1200
Industry analysts said that the recent rise in fuel prices may be an early signal <span style="text-decoration: underline">of the possibility of gasoline and heating oil prices staying higher than usually through</span> the end of the year.
(A)	of the possibility of gasoline and heating oil prices staying higher than usually through
(B)	of the possibility that gasoline and heating oil prices could stay higher than usual throughout
(C)	of prices of gasoline and heating oil possibly staying higher than usually through
(D)	that prices of gasoline and heating oil could stay higher than they usually are throughout
(E)	that prices of gasoline and heating oil will stay higher than usual through
---------------------------------
#SC#38 (284)#A#1300
The growth <span style="text-decoration: underline">projected for these storms in different computerized weather models varies widely.</span>
(A)	projected for these storms in different computerized weather models varies widely
(B)	for these storms is projected in different computerized models of weather to vary widely
(C)	of these storms, projected in different computerized weather models, vary widely
(D)	projected for these storms, which vary widely in different computerized weather models
(E)	that varies widely for these storms are projected in different computerized weather models
---------------------------------
#SC#39 (285)#C#1400
By using a process called echolocation to analyze the echoes of the high-pitched sounds they produce, bats <span style="text-decoration: underline">can determine not only the distance to an object, but they also can determine</span> its shape and size and the direction in which it is moving.
(A)	can determine not only the distance to an object, but they also can determine
(B)	not only can determine the distance to an object but also
(C)	can determine not only the distance to an object but also
(D)	not only can determine its distance from an object but also
(E)	can determine not only their distance from an object, but they can also determine
---------------------------------
#SC#40 (286)#A#1500
Carbon dioxide, which traps heat in the atmosphere and helps regulate the planet’s surface temperature, is constantly being <span style="text-decoration: underline">exchanged between the atmosphere on the one hand and the oceans and terrestrial plants on the other.</span>
(A)	exchanged between the atmosphere on the one hand and the oceans and terrestrial plants on the other
(B)	exchanged, on the one hand, between the atmosphere and the oceans and terrestrial plants, on the other
(C)	exchanged between, on the one hand, the atmosphere, with the oceans and terrestrial plants, on the other
(D)	exchanged, on the one hand, among the oceans and terrestrial plants, and the atmosphere, on the other
(E)	exchanged among the oceans and terrestrial plants on the one hand and the atmosphere on the other
---------------------------------
#SC#41 (292)#E#1600
The North American <span style="text-decoration: underline">moose's long legs enable it to move quickly through the woods, stepping easily over downed trees, but predators pursuing it must leap or go around them.</span>
(A)	moose's long legs enable it to move quickly through the woods, stepping easily over downed trees, but predators pursuing it must leap or go around them
(B)	moose's long legs enable it to move quickly through the woods, stepping easily over downed trees while predators pursuing them must leap or go around
(C)	moose's long legs enable it to move quickly through the woods and to step easily over downed trees, but predators pursuing them must leap over or go around them
(D)	moose has long legs, enabling it to move quickly through the woods and to stop easily over downed trees while predators pursuing them must leap or go around
(E)	moose has long legs that enable it to move quickly through the woods, stepping easily over downed trees while predators pursuing it must leap over or go around them
---------------------------------
#SC#42 (293)#E#1700
Early administrative decisions in China’s Ming Dynasty eventually caused a drastic fall in tax revenues, a reduction in military preparedness, <span style="text-decoration: underline">the collapse of the currency system, and failed</span> to make sufficient investment in vital transportation infrastructure.
(A)	the collapse of the currency system, and failed
(B)	the collapse of the currency system, and failing
(C)	and the collapse of the currency system, also failed
(D)	the collapse of the currency system, as well as failing
(E)	and the collapse of the currency system, as well as a failure
---------------------------------
