####47####VR19
#RC#1 (P1 - 1)#C#100
The dry mountain ranges of the western United States contain rocks dating back 440 to 510 million years, to the Ordovician period, and teeming with evidence of tropical marine life. This rock record provides clues about one of the most significant radiations (periods when existing life-forms gave rise to variations that would eventually evolve into entirely new species) in the history of marine invertebrates. During this radiation the number of marine biological families increased greatly, and these families included species that would dominate the marine ecosystems of the area for the next 215 million years. Although the radiation spanned tens of millions of years, major changes in many species occurred during a geologically short time span within the radiation and, furthermore, appear to have occurred worldwide, suggesting that external events were major factors in the radiation. And , in fact, there is evidence of major ecological and geological changes during this period: the sea level dropped drastically and mountain ranges were formed, in this instance, rather than leading to large-scale extinctions, these kinds of environmental changes may have resulted in an enriched pattern of habitats and nutrients, which in turn gave rise to the Ordovician radiation. However, the actual relationship between these environmental factors and the diversification of life forms is not yet fully understood
The passage is primarily concerned with 
(A) evaluating the evidence of a major geologic period and determining its duration 
(B) describing an evolutionary phenomenon and speculating about its cause 
(C) explaining the mechanisms through which marine life-forms evolved during a particular period 
(D) analyzing the impact on later life-forms of an important evolutionary development 
(E) contrasting a period of evolutionary change with other such periods 
---------------------------------
#RC#2 (P1 - 2)#B200
The dry mountain ranges of the western United States contain rocks dating back 440 to 510 million years, to the Ordovician period, and teeming with evidence of tropical marine life. This rock record provides clues about one of the most significant radiations (periods when existing life-forms gave rise to variations that would eventually evolve into entirely new species) in the history of marine invertebrates. During this radiation the number of marine biological families increased greatly, and these families included species that would dominate the marine ecosystems of the area for the next 215 million years. Although the radiation spanned tens of millions of years, major changes in many species occurred during a geologically short time span within the radiation and, furthermore, appear to have occurred worldwide, suggesting that external events were major factors in the radiation. And , in fact, there is evidence of major ecological and geological changes during this period: the sea level dropped drastically and mountain ranges were formed, in this instance, rather than leading to large-scale extinctions, these kinds of environmental changes may have resulted in an enriched pattern of habitats and nutrients, which in turn gave rise to the Ordovician radiation. However, the actual relationship between these environmental factors and the diversification of life forms is not yet fully understood
Which of the following can be inferred from the passage regarding the geologic changes that occurred during Ordovician period?
(A) They were more drastic than those associated with other radiations.
(B) They may have created conditions favorable to the evolution of many new life-forms.
(C) They may have caused the extinction of many of the marine species living in shallow waters.
(D) They may have been a factor in the development of new species adapted to living both on land and in water.
(E) They hastened the formation of the extensive dry regions found in the western united states.
---------------------------------
#RC#3 (P1 - 3)#E#300
The dry mountain ranges of the western United States contain rocks dating back 440 to 510 million years, to the Ordovician period, and teeming with evidence of tropical marine life. This rock record provides clues about one of the most significant radiations (periods when existing life-forms gave rise to variations that would eventually evolve into entirely new species) in the history of marine invertebrates. During this radiation the number of marine biological families increased greatly, and these families included species that would dominate the marine ecosystems of the area for the next 215 million years. Although the radiation spanned tens of millions of years, major changes in many species occurred during a geologically short time span within the radiation and, furthermore, appear to have occurred worldwide, suggesting that external events were major factors in the radiation. And , in fact, there is evidence of major ecological and geological changes during this period: the sea level dropped drastically and mountain ranges were formed, in this instance, rather than leading to large-scale extinctions, these kinds of environmental changes may have resulted in an enriched pattern of habitats and nutrients, which in turn gave rise to the Ordovician radiation. However, the actual relationship between these environmental factors and the diversification of life forms is not yet fully understood
Which of the following best describes the function of last sentence of the passage?
(A) it points out that the events described in the passage may be atypical.
(B) it alludes to the fact that there is disagreement in the scientific community over the importance of the Ordovician radiation.
(C) it concludes that the evidence presented in the passage is insufficient to support the proposed hypothesis because it comes from a limited geographic area.
(D) it warns the reader against seeing a connection between the biological and geologic changes described in the passage.
(E) it alerts the reader that current knowledge cannot completely explain the relationship suggested by the evidence presented in the passage.
---------------------------------
#RC#4 (P2 - 1)#C#400
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
(A)	criticizing Locke's economic theories
(B)	discounting the contribution of labor in a modern economy
(C)	questioning the validity of the labor theory of value
(D)	arguing for a more equitable distribution of business profits
(E)	contending that employers are overcompensated for capital goods
---------------------------------
#RC#5 (P2 - 2)#C#500
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
According to the author of the passage, which of the following is true of the distribution of the income derived from the total output of consumer goods in a modern economy?
(A)	Workers receive a share of this income that is significantly smaller than the value of their labor as a contribution to total output.
(B)	Owners of capital goods receive a share of this income that is significantly greater than the contribution to total output attributable to the use of capital goods.
(C)	Owners of capital goods receive a share of this income that is no greater than the proportion of total output attributable to the use of capital goods.
(D)	Owners of capital goods are not fully compensated for their investment because they pay out most of their share of this income to workers as wages and benefits.
(E)	Workers receive a share of this income that is greater than the value of their labor because the labor theory of value overestimates their contribution to total output.
---------------------------------
#RC#6 (P2 - 3)#C#600
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
Which of the following statements, if true, would most effectively counter the author's criticism of Locke at the end of the passage?
(A)	Locke was unfamiliar with the labor theory of value as it was formulated by his intellectual heirs.
(B)	In Locke's day, there was no possibility of ordinary workers becoming shareholders or pension beneficiaries.
(C)	During Locke's lifetime, capital goods did not make a significant productive contribution to the economy.
(D)	The precise statistical calculation of the productive contributions of labor and capital goods is not possible without computers.
(E)	The terms “capital goods” and “consumer goods” were coined by modern economists and do not appear in Locke's writings.
---------------------------------
#RC#7 (P2 - 4)#D#700
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage?
(A)	The author explores the origins of a theory and explains why the theory never gained widespread acceptance.
(B)	The author introduces the premise of a theory, evaluates the premise by relating it to objective reality, then proposes a modification of the theory.
(C)	After quoting a well-known authority, the author describes the evolution of a theory, then traces its modern form back to the original quotation.
(D)	After citing a precursor of a theory, the author outlines and refutes the theory, then links its flaw to the precursor.
(E)	After tracing the roots of a theory, the author attempts to undermine the theory by discrediting its originator.
---------------------------------
#RC#8 (P2 - 5)#E#800
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
Which of the following arguments would a proponent of the labor theory of value, as it is presented in the first paragraph, be most likely to use in response to lines 23–25 ?
(A)	The productive contributions of workers and capital goods cannot be compared because the productive life span of capital goods is longer than that of workers.
(B)	The author's analysis of the distribution of income is misleading because only a small percentage of workers are also shareholders.
(C)	Capital goods are valuable only insofar as they contribute directly to the production of consumer goods.
(D)	The productive contribution of capital goods must be discounted because capital goods require maintenance.
(E)	The productive contribution of capital goods must be attributed to labor because capital goods are themselves products of labor.
---------------------------------
#RC#9 (P2 - 6)#D#900
Seventeenth-century philosopher John Locke stated that as much as 99 percent of the value of any useful product can be attributed to “the effects of labor.” For Locke’s intellectual heirs it was only a short step to the “labor theory of value,” whose formulators held that 100 percent of the value of any product is generated by labor (the human work needed to produce goods) and that therefore the employer who appropriates any part of the product’s value as profit is practicing theft.<br><br>Although human effort is required to produce goods for the consumer market, effort is also invested in making capital goods (tools, machines, etc.), which are used to facilitate the production of consumer goods. In modern economies about one-third of the total output of consumer goods is attributable to the use of capital goods. Approximately two-thirds of the income derived from this total output is paid out to workers as wages and salaries, the remaining third serving as compensation to the owners of the capital goods. Moreover, part of this remaining third is received by workers who are shareholders, pension beneficiaries, and the like. The labor theory of value systematically disregards the productive contribution of capital goods—a failing for which Locke must bear part of the blame.
The author of the passage implies which of the following regarding the formulators of the labor theory of value?
(A)	They came from a working-class background.
(B)	Their views were too radical to have popular appeal.
(C)	At least one of them was a close contemporary of Locke.
(D)	They were familiar with Locke's views on the relationship between labor and the value of products.
(E)	They underestimated the importance of consumer goods in a modern economy.
---------------------------------
#RC#10 (P3 - 1)#B#1000
Researchers studying how genes control animal behavior have had to deal with many uncertainties. In the first place, most behaviors are governed by more than one gene, and until recently geneticists had no method for identifying the multiple genes involved. In addition, even when a single gene is found to control a behavior, researchers in different fields do not necessarily agree that it is a “behavioral gene.” Neuroscientists, whose interest in genetic research is to understand the nervous system (which generates behavior), define the term broadly. But ethologists—specialists in animal behavior—are interested in evolution, so they define the term narrowly. They insist that mutations in a behavioral gene must alter a specific normal behavior and not merely make the organism ill, so that the genetically induced behavioral change will provide variation that natural selection can act upon, possibly leading to the evolution of a new species. For example, in the fruit fly, researchers have identified the gene Shaker, mutations in which cause flies to shake violently under anesthesia. Since shaking is not healthy, ethologists do not consider Shaker a behavioral gene. In contrast, ethologists do consider the gene period (per), which controls the fruit fly’s circadian (24-hour) rhythm, a behavioral gene because files with mutated per genes are healthy; they simply have different rhythms.
It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following, if true, would be most likely to influence ethologists’ opinions about whether a particular gene in a species is a behavioral gene?
(A)The gene is found only in that species.
(B)The gene is extremely difficult to identify.
(C)The only effect of mutations in the gene is to make the organism ill.
(D)Neuroscientists consider the gene to be a behavioral gene.
(E)Geneticists consider the gene to be a behavioral gene.
---------------------------------
#RC#11 (P3 - 2)#A#1100
Researchers studying how genes control animal behavior have had to deal with many uncertainties. In the first place, most behaviors are governed by more than one gene, and until recently geneticists had no method for identifying the multiple genes involved. In addition, even when a single gene is found to control a behavior, researchers in different fields do not necessarily agree that it is a “behavioral gene.” Neuroscientists, whose interest in genetic research is to understand the nervous system (which generates behavior), define the term broadly. But ethologists—specialists in animal behavior—are interested in evolution, so they define the term narrowly. They insist that mutations in a behavioral gene must alter a specific normal behavior and not merely make the organism ill, so that the genetically induced behavioral change will provide variation that natural selection can act upon, possibly leading to the evolution of a new species. For example, in the fruit fly, researchers have identified the gene Shaker, mutations in which cause flies to shake violently under anesthesia. Since shaking is not healthy, ethologists do not consider Shaker a behavioral gene. In contrast, ethologists do consider the gene period (per), which controls the fruit fly’s circadian (24-hour) rhythm, a behavioral gene because files with mutated per genes are healthy; they simply have different rhythms.
The passage suggests that neuroscientists would most likely consider Shaker to be which of the following?
(A)An example of a behavioral gene
(B)One of multiple genes that control a single behavior
(C)A gene that, when mutated, causes an alteration in a specific normal behavior without making the organism ill
(D)A gene of interest to ethologists but of no interest to neuroscientists
(E)A poor source of information about the nervous system
---------------------------------
#RC#12 (P3 - 3)#C#1200
Researchers studying how genes control animal behavior have had to deal with many uncertainties. In the first place, most behaviors are governed by more than one gene, and until recently geneticists had no method for identifying the multiple genes involved. In addition, even when a single gene is found to control a behavior, researchers in different fields do not necessarily agree that it is a “behavioral gene.” Neuroscientists, whose interest in genetic research is to understand the nervous system (which generates behavior), define the term broadly. But ethologists—specialists in animal behavior—are interested in evolution, so they define the term narrowly. They insist that mutations in a behavioral gene must alter a specific normal behavior and not merely make the organism ill, so that the genetically induced behavioral change will provide variation that natural selection can act upon, possibly leading to the evolution of a new species. For example, in the fruit fly, researchers have identified the gene Shaker, mutations in which cause flies to shake violently under anesthesia. Since shaking is not healthy, ethologists do not consider Shaker a behavioral gene. In contrast, ethologists do consider the gene period (per), which controls the fruit fly’s circadian (24-hour) rhythm, a behavioral gene because files with mutated per genes are healthy; they simply have different rhythms.
It can be inferred from the passage that which of the following, if true, would be most likely to influence ethologists’ opinions about whether a particular gene in a species is a behavioral gene?
(A)The gene is found only in that species.
(B)The gene is extremely difficult to identify.
(C)The only effect of mutations in the gene is to make the organism ill.
(D)Neuroscientists consider the gene to be a behavioral gene.
(E)Geneticists consider the gene to be a behavioral gene.
---------------------------------
#RC#13 (P4 - 1)#E#1300
Historians who study European women of the Renaissance try to measure “independence,” “options,” and other indicators of the degree to which the expression of women’s individuality was either permitted or suppressed. Influenced by Western individualism, these historians define peculiar form of personhood: an innately bounded unit, autonomous and standing apart from both nature and society. An anthropologist, however, would contend that a person can be conceived in ways other than as an “individual.” In many societies a person’s identity is not intrinsically unique and self-contained but instead is defined within a complex web of social relationships.<br><br>In her study of the fifteenth-century Florentine widow Alessandra Strozzi, a historian who specializes in European women of the Renaissance attributes individual intention and authorship of actions to her subject. This historian assumes that Alessandra had goals and interests different from those of her sons, yet much of the historian’s own research reveals that Alessandra acted primarily as a champion of her sons’ interests, taking their goals as her own. Thus Alessandra conforms more closely to the anthropologist’s notion that personal motivation is embedded in a social context. Indeed, one could argue that Alessandra did not distinguish her personhood from that of her sons. In Renaissance Europe the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed and did not necessarily coincide with the boundaries of the bodily self.
According to the passage, much of the research on Alessandra Strozzi done by the historian mentioned in the second paragraph supports which of the following conclusions?
(A) Alessandra used her position as her sons' sole guardian to further interests different from those of her sons.
(B) Alessandra unwillingly sacrificed her own interests in favor of those of her sons.
(C) Alessandra's actions indicate that her motivations and intentions were those of an independent individual.
(D) Alessandra's social context encouraged her to take independent action.
(E) Alessandra regarded her sons' goals and interests as her own.
---------------------------------
#RC#14 (P4 - 2)#B#1400
Historians who study European women of the Renaissance try to measure “independence,” “options,” and other indicators of the degree to which the expression of women’s individuality was either permitted or suppressed. Influenced by Western individualism, these historians define peculiar form of personhood: an innately bounded unit, autonomous and standing apart from both nature and society. An anthropologist, however, would contend that a person can be conceived in ways other than as an “individual.” In many societies a person’s identity is not intrinsically unique and self-contained but instead is defined within a complex web of social relationships.<br><br>In her study of the fifteenth-century Florentine widow Alessandra Strozzi, a historian who specializes in European women of the Renaissance attributes individual intention and authorship of actions to her subject. This historian assumes that Alessandra had goals and interests different from those of her sons, yet much of the historian’s own research reveals that Alessandra acted primarily as a champion of her sons’ interests, taking their goals as her own. Thus Alessandra conforms more closely to the anthropologist’s notion that personal motivation is embedded in a social context. Indeed, one could argue that Alessandra did not distinguish her personhood from that of her sons. In Renaissance Europe the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed and did not necessarily coincide with the boundaries of the bodily self.
In the first paragraph, the author of the passage mentions a contention that would be made by an anthropologist most likely in order to
(A) present a theory that will be undermined in the discussion of a historian's study later in the passage
(B) offer a perspective on the concept of personhood that can usefully be applied to the study of women in Renaissance Europe
(C) undermine the view that the individuality of European women of the Renaissance was largely suppressed
(D) argue that anthropologists have applied the Western concept of individualism in their research
(E) lay the groundwork for the conclusion that Alessandra's is a unique case among European women of the Renaissance whose lives have been studied by historians

---------------------------------
#RC#15 (P4 - 3)#C#1500
Historians who study European women of the Renaissance try to measure “independence,” “options,” and other indicators of the degree to which the expression of women’s individuality was either permitted or suppressed. Influenced by Western individualism, these historians define peculiar form of personhood: an innately bounded unit, autonomous and standing apart from both nature and society. An anthropologist, however, would contend that a person can be conceived in ways other than as an “individual.” In many societies a person’s identity is not intrinsically unique and self-contained but instead is defined within a complex web of social relationships.<br><br>In her study of the fifteenth-century Florentine widow Alessandra Strozzi, a historian who specializes in European women of the Renaissance attributes individual intention and authorship of actions to her subject. This historian assumes that Alessandra had goals and interests different from those of her sons, yet much of the historian’s own research reveals that Alessandra acted primarily as a champion of her sons’ interests, taking their goals as her own. Thus Alessandra conforms more closely to the anthropologist’s notion that personal motivation is embedded in a social context. Indeed, one could argue that Alessandra did not distinguish her personhood from that of her sons. In Renaissance Europe the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed and did not necessarily coincide with the boundaries of the bodily self.
The passage suggests that the historians referred to in line 1 make which of the following assumptions about Renaissance Europe?
(A) That anthropologists overestimate the importance of the individual in Renaissance European society
(B) That in Renaissance Europe, women were typically allowed to express their individuality
(C) That European women of the Renaissance had the possibility of acting independently of the social context in which they lived
(D) That studying an individual such as Alessandra is the best way to draw general conclusions about the lives of women in Renaissance Europe
(E) That people in Renaissance Europe had greater personal autonomy than people do currently
---------------------------------
#RC#16 (P4 - 4)#E#1600
Historians who study European women of the Renaissance try to measure “independence,” “options,” and other indicators of the degree to which the expression of women’s individuality was either permitted or suppressed. Influenced by Western individualism, these historians define peculiar form of personhood: an innately bounded unit, autonomous and standing apart from both nature and society. An anthropologist, however, would contend that a person can be conceived in ways other than as an “individual.” In many societies a person’s identity is not intrinsically unique and self-contained but instead is defined within a complex web of social relationships.<br><br>In her study of the fifteenth-century Florentine widow Alessandra Strozzi, a historian who specializes in European women of the Renaissance attributes individual intention and authorship of actions to her subject. This historian assumes that Alessandra had goals and interests different from those of her sons, yet much of the historian’s own research reveals that Alessandra acted primarily as a champion of her sons’ interests, taking their goals as her own. Thus Alessandra conforms more closely to the anthropologist’s notion that personal motivation is embedded in a social context. Indeed, one could argue that Alessandra did not distinguish her personhood from that of her sons. In Renaissance Europe the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed and did not necessarily coincide with the boundaries of the bodily self.
It can be inferred that the author of the passage believes which of the following about the study of Alessandra Strozzi done by the historian mentioned in the second paragraph?
(A) Alessandra was atypical of her time and was therefore an inappropriate choice for the subject of the historian's research.
(B) In order to bolster her thesis, the historian adopted the anthropological perspective on personhood.
(C) The historian argues that the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed in Renaissance Europe.
(D) In her study, the historian reverts to a traditional approach that is out of step with the work of other historians of Renaissance Europe.
(E) The interpretation of Alessandra's actions that the historian puts forward is not supported by much of the historian's research.
---------------------------------
#RC#17 (P4 - 5)#D#1700
Historians who study European women of the Renaissance try to measure “independence,” “options,” and other indicators of the degree to which the expression of women’s individuality was either permitted or suppressed. Influenced by Western individualism, these historians define peculiar form of personhood: an innately bounded unit, autonomous and standing apart from both nature and society. An anthropologist, however, would contend that a person can be conceived in ways other than as an “individual.” In many societies a person’s identity is not intrinsically unique and self-contained but instead is defined within a complex web of social relationships.<br><br>In her study of the fifteenth-century Florentine widow Alessandra Strozzi, a historian who specializes in European women of the Renaissance attributes individual intention and authorship of actions to her subject. This historian assumes that Alessandra had goals and interests different from those of her sons, yet much of the historian’s own research reveals that Alessandra acted primarily as a champion of her sons’ interests, taking their goals as her own. Thus Alessandra conforms more closely to the anthropologist’s notion that personal motivation is embedded in a social context. Indeed, one could argue that Alessandra did not distinguish her personhood from that of her sons. In Renaissance Europe the boundaries of the conceptual self were not always firm and closed and did not necessarily coincide with the boundaries of the bodily self.
The passage suggests that the historian mentioned in the second paragraph would be most likely to agree with which of the following assertions regarding Alessandra Strozzi?
(A) Alessandra was able to act more independently than most women of her time because she was a widow.
(B) Alessandra was aware that her personal motivation was embedded in a social context.
(C) Alessandra had goals and interests similar to those of many other widows in her society.
(D) Alessandra is an example of a Renaissance woman who expressed her individuality through independent action.
(E) Alessandra was exceptional because she was able to effect changes in the social constraints placed upon women in her society.
---------------------------------
#RC#18 (P5 - 1)#B#1800
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one regional bank, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their service improvement to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The only merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
The primary purpose of the passage is to
(A) contrast possible outcomes of a type of business investment
(B) suggest more careful evaluation of a type of business investment
(C) illustrate various ways in which a type of business investment could fail to enhance revenues
(D) trace the general problems of a company to a certain type of business investment
(E) criticize the way in which managers tend to analyze the costs and benefits of business investments
---------------------------------
#RC#19 (P5 - 2)#C#1900
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one regional bank, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their service improvement to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The only merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
According to the passage, investments in service are comparable to investments in production and distribution in terms of the
(A) tangibility of the benefits that they tend to confer
(B) increased revenues that they ultimately produce
(C) basis on which they need to be weighed
(D) insufficient analysis that managers devote to them
(E) degree of competitive advantage that they are likely to provide
---------------------------------
#RC#20 (P5 - 3)#A#2000
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one regional bank, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their service improvement to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The only merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
The passage suggests which of the following about service provided by the regional bank prior to its investment in enhancing that service?
(A) It enabled the bank to retain customers at an acceptable rate
(B) It threatened to weaken the bank’s competitive position with respect to other regional banks
(C) It had already been improved after having caused damage to the bank’s reputation in the past.
(D) It was slightly superior to that of the bank’s regional competitors.
(E) It needed to be improved to attain parity with the service provided by competing banks.
---------------------------------
#RC#21 (P5 - 4)#D#2000
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one regional bank, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>service improvement</strong></span> to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The only merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
The passage suggests that bank managers failed to consider whether or not the service improvement mentioned in lines 19 
(A) was too complicated to be easily described to prospective customers
(B) made a measurable change in the experiences of customers in the bank’s offices
(C) could be sustained if the number of customers increased significantly
(D) was an innovation that competing banks could have imitated
(E) was adequate to bring the bank’s general level of service to a level that was comparable with that of its competitors
---------------------------------
#RC#22 (P5 - 5)#E#2000
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>regional bank</strong></span>, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their service improvement to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The only merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
The discussion of the regional bank (line 13-24) serves which of the following functions within the passage as a whole?
(A) It describes an exceptional case in which investment in service actually failed to produce a competitive advantage.
(B) It illustrates the pitfalls of choosing to invest in service at a time when investment is needed more urgently in another area.
(C) It demonstrates the kind of analysis that managers apply when they choose one kind of service investment over another
(D) It supports the argument that investments in certain aspects of service are more advantageous than investments in other aspects of service.
(E) It provides an example of the point about investment in service made in the first paragraph.
---------------------------------
#RC#23 (P5 - 6)#B#2000
The fact that superior service can generate a competitive advantage for a company does not mean that every attempt at improving service will create such an advantage. Investments in service, like those in production and distribution, must be balanced against other types of investments on the basis of direct, tangible benefits such as cost reduction and increased revenues. If a company is already effectively on a par with its competitors because it provides service that avoids a damaging reputation and keeps customers from leaving at an unacceptable rate, then investment in higher service levels may be wasted, since service is a deciding factor for customers only in extreme situations.<br><br>This truth was not apparent to managers of one regional bank, which failed to improve its competitive position despite its investment in reducing the time a customer had to wait for a teller. The bank managers did not recognize the level of customer inertia in the consumer banking industry that arises from the inconvenience of switching banks. Nor did they analyze their service improvement to determine whether it would attract new customers by producing a new standard of service that would excite customers or by proving difficult for competitors to copy. The <span style="background:yellow;"><strong>only</strong></span> merit of the improvement was that it could easily be described to customers.
The author uses the word "only" in line 23 most likely in order to
(A) highlight the oddity of the service improvement
(B) emphasize the relatively low value of the investment in service improvement
(C) distinguish the primary attribute of the service improvement from secondary attributes
(D) single out a certain merit of the service improvement from other merits
(E) point out the limited duration of the actual service improvement
---------------------------------
#CR#24#B#100
Cocoa grown organically on trees within the shade of the rain forest canopy commands a premium price. However, acquiring and maintaining the certification that allows the crop to be sold as organically grown is very time-consuming and laborious. Meanwhile, the price premium for the grower is about 30 percent, whereas cocoa trees grown in full sun using standard techniques can have twice the yield of organic, shade-grown trees. Financially, therefore, standard techniques are the better choice for the farmer.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument?
(A) Cocoa can be grown only in a climate that has the temperature and moisture characteristics of a tropical rain forest.
(B) Cocoa trees grown using standard techniques require costly applications of fertilizer and pesticides, unlike shade-grown trees.
(C) Although organically grown cocoa has long commanded a price premium over cocoa grown using standard techniques, its price has fluctuated considerably during that period.
(D) Cocoa is not the only cash crop that can be raised on plots that leave the rain forest canopy overhead essentially intact.
(E) Governments and international conservation organizations are working to streamline organic certification so as to relieve farmers of unnecessary work.
---------------------------------
#CR#25#A#100
From 1900 until the 1930s, pellagra, a disease later discovered to result from a deficiency of the vitamin niacin, was common among poor cotton farmers in the United States whose diet consisted mostly of corn, the least costly food they could buy. Corn does not contain niacin in usable form. Curiously, during the Depression of the early 1930s, when cotton's price collapsed and cotton farmers’ income declined, the incidence of pellagra among those farmers also declined.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to explain the decline in the incidence of pellagra?
(A) When growing a cash crop could not generate adequate income, poor farmers in the United States responded by planting their land with vegetables and fruits for their own consumption.
(B) People whose diets consist largely of corn often suffer from protein deficiency as well as niacin deficiency.
(C) Until the discovery of pellagra's link with niacin, it was widely believed that the disease was an infection that could be transmitted from person to person.
(D) Effective treatment for pellagra became available once its link with niacin was established.
(E) In parts of Mexico, where people subsisted on corn but pellagra was uncommon, corn was typically processed with alkaline substances, which make the niacin in the corn absorbable.
---------------------------------
#CR#26#B#100
Automobile ownership was rare in Sabresia as recently as 30 years ago, but with continuing growth of personal income there, automobile ownership has become steadily more common. Consequently, there are now far more automobiles on Sabresia's roads than there were 30 years ago, and the annual number of automobile accidents has increased significantly. Yet the annual number of deaths and injuries resulting from automobile accidents has not increased significantly.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to explain why deaths and injuries resulting from automobile accidents have not increased significantly?
(A) Virtually all of the improvements in Sabresia's roads that were required to accommodate increased traffic were completed more than ten years ago.
(B) With more and more people owning cars, the average number of passengers in a car on the road has dropped dramatically.
(C) The increases in traffic volume have been most dramatic on Sabresia's highways, where speeds are well above those of other roads.
(D) Because of a vigorous market in used cars, the average age of cars on the road has actually increased throughout the years of steady growth in automobile ownership.
(E) Automobile ownership is still much less common in Sabresia than it is in other countries.
---------------------------------
#CR#27#A#100
A child learning to play the piano will not succeed unless the child has an instrument at home on which to practice. However, good-quality pianos, whether new or secondhand, are costly. Buying one is justified only if the child has the necessary talent and perseverance, which is precisely what one cannot know in advance. Consequently, parents should buy an inexpensive secondhand instrument at first and upgrade if and when the child's ability and inclination are proven.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, casts the most serious doubt on the course of action recommended for parents?
(A) Learners, particularly those with genuine musical talent, are apt to lose interest in the instrument if they have to play on a piano that fails to produce a pleasing sound.
(B) Reputable piano teachers do not accept children as pupils unless they know that the children can practice on a piano at home.
(C) Ideally, the piano on which a child practices at home should be located in a room away from family activities going on at the same time.
(D) Very young beginners often make remarkable progress at playing the piano at first, but then appear to stand still for a considerable period of time.
(E) In some parents, spending increasing amounts of money on having their children learn to play the piano produces increasing anxiety to hear immediate results.
---------------------------------
#CR#28#B#100
Which of the following most logically completes the market forecaster's argument?<br><br>Market forecaster: The price of pecans is high when pecans are comparatively scarce but drops sharply when pecans are abundant. Thus, in high-yield years, growers often store part of their crop in refrigerated warehouses until after the next year's harvest, hoping for higher prices then. Because of bad weather, this year's pecan crop will be very small. Nevertheless, pecan prices this year will not be significantly higher than last year, since __________.
(A) the last time the pecan crop was as small as it was this year, the practice of holding back part of one year's crop had not yet become widely established
(B) last year's pecan harvest was the largest in the last 40 years
(C) pecan prices have remained relatively stable in recent years
(D) pecan yields for some farmers were as high this year as they had been last year
(E) the quality of this year's pecan crop is as high as the quality of any pecan crop in the previous five years
---------------------------------
#CR#29#C#100
In Australia, in years with below-average rainfall, less water goes into rivers and more water is extracted from rivers for drinking and irrigation. Consequently, in such years, water levels drop considerably and the rivers flow more slowly. Because algae grow better the more slowly the water in which they are growing moves, such years are generally beneficial to populations of algae. But, by contrast, populations of algae drop in periods of extreme drought.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, does most to explain the contrast?
(A) Algae grow better in ponds and lakes than in rivers.
(B) The more slowly water moves, the more conducive its temperature is to the growth of algae.
(C) Algae cannot survive in the absence of water.
(D) Algae must be filtered out of water before it can be used for drinking.
(E) The larger the population of algae in a body of water, the less sunlight reaches below the surface of the water.
---------------------------------
#CR#30#B#100
Which of the following, if true, most logically completes the politician's argument?<br><br>United States politician: Although the amount of United States goods shipped to Mexico doubled in the year after tariffs on trade between the two countries were reduced, it does not follow that the reduction in tariffs caused the sales of United States goods to companies and consumers in Mexico to double that year, because __________.
(A) many of the United States companies that produced goods that year had competitors based in Mexico that had long produced the same kind of goods
(B) most of the increase in goods shipped by United States companies to Mexico was in parts shipped to the companies’ newly relocated subsidiaries for assembly and subsequent shipment back to the United States
(C) marketing goods to a previously unavailable group of consumers is most successful when advertising specifically targets those consumers, but developing such advertising often takes longer than a year
(D) the amount of Mexican goods shipped to the United States remained the same as it had been before the tariff reductions
(E) there was no significant change in the employment rate in either of the countries that year
---------------------------------
#CR#31#C#100
Most banks that issue credit cards charge interest rates on credit card debt that are ten percentage points higher than the rates those banks charge for ordinary consumer loans. These banks’ representatives claim the difference is fully justified, since it simply covers the difference between the costs to these banks associated with credit card debt and those associated with consumer loans.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most seriously calls into question the reasoning offered by the banks’ representatives?
(A) Some lenders that are not banks offer consumer loans at interest rates that are even higher than most banks charge on credit card debt.
(B) Most car rental companies require that their customers provide signed credit card charge slips or security deposits.
(C) Two to three percent of the selling price of every item bought with a given credit card goes to the bank that issued that credit card.
(D) Most people need not use credit cards to buy everyday necessities, but could buy those necessities with cash or pay by check.
(E) People who pay their credit card bills in full each month usually pay no interest on the amounts they charge.
---------------------------------
#CR#32#C#100
A two-year study beginning in 1977 found that, among 85-year-old people, those whose immune systems were weakest were twice as likely to die within two years as others in the study. The cause of their deaths, however, was more often heart disease, against which the immune system does not protect, than cancer or infections, which are attacked by the immune system.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, would offer the best prospects for explaining deaths in which weakness of the immune system, though present, played no causal role?
(A) There were twice as many infections among those in the study with the weakest immune systems as among those with the strongest immune systems.
(B) The majority of those in the study with the strongest immune systems died from infection or cancer by 1987.
(C) Some of the drugs that had been used to treat the symptoms of heart disease had a side effect of weakening the immune system.
(D) Most of those in the study who survived beyond the two-year period had recovered from a serious infection sometime prior to 1978.
(E) Those in the study who survived into the 1980s had, in 1976, strengthened their immune systems through drug therapy.
---------------------------------
#CR#33#D#100
Parland’s alligator population has been declining in recent years, primarily because of hunting. Alligators prey heavily on a species of freshwater fish that is highly valued as food by Parlanders, who had hoped that the decline in the alligator population would lead to an increase in the numbers of these fish available for human consumption. Yet the population of this fish species has also declined, even though the annual number caught for human consumption has not increased.<br><br>Which of the following, if true, most helps to explain the decline in the population of the fish species?
(A) The decline in the alligator population has meant that fishers can work in some parts of lakes and rivers that were formerly too dangerous.
(B) Over the last few years, Parland’s commercial fishing enterprises have increased the number of fishing boats they use.
(C) Many Parlanders who hunt alligators do so because of the high market price of alligator skins, not because of the threat alligators pose to the fish population.
(D) During Parland’s dry season, holes dug by alligators remain filled with water long enough to provide a safe place for the eggs of this fish species to hatch.
(E) In several neighboring countries through which Parland’s rivers also flow, alligators are at risk of extinction as a result of extensive hunting.
---------------------------------
#SC#34#C#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">With respect to most species of animals, they are evenly divided in right- or left-handedness, unlike humans.</span>
(A) With respect to most species of animals, they are evenly divided in right- or left-handedness, unlike humans.
(B) With respect to right- or left-handedness, most species of animals are evenly divided, unlike in humans.
(C) Unlike humans, most species of animals are evenly divided with respect to right- or left-handedness.
(D) Unlike in humans, most species of animals with respect to right- or left-handedness are evenly divided.
(E) Unlike humans, with respect to right- or left-handedness, in most species of animals it is evenly divided.
---------------------------------
#SC#35#C#100
The interior minister explained that <span style="text-decoration: underline">one of the village planning proposal’s best characteristics was their not detracting</span> from the project’s overall benefit by being a burden on the development budget.
(A) one of the village planning proposal’s best characteristics was their not detracting
(B) one of the village’s planning proposal’s best characteristics were its not taking
(C) one of the best characteristics of the village’s planning proposal was that it did not detract
(D) a best characteristic of the village planning proposal was, it did not take
(E) among the village planning proposal’s best characteristics, one was, it did not detract
---------------------------------
#SC#36#D#100
Butterflies come in more than 17,000 species, <span style="text-decoration: underline">displaying a wing pattern unique to each one</span>.
(A) displaying a wing pattern unique to each one
(B) displaying a unique wing pattern in each
(C) each uniquely displaying a wing pattern
(D) each of which displays a unique wing pattern
(E) each of which uniquely displays a wing pattern
---------------------------------
#SC#37#E#100
Together with Key Largo National Marine Sanctuary, the John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park, the first underwater park in the United States, <span style="text-decoration: underline">provide 165 square nautical miles of marine life for underwater explorers, which includes</span> more than 500 species of fish and 55 varieties of coral.
(A) provide 165 square nautical miles of marine life for underwater explorers, which includes
(B) provide for underwater explorers 165 square nautical miles of marine life, which include
(C) provide 165 square nautical miles of marine life for underwater explorers and includes
(D) provides 165 square nautical miles of marine life for underwater explorers and including
(E) provides underwater explorers with 165 square nautical miles of marine life, including
---------------------------------
#SC#38#C#100
While Hollywood makes films primarily for entertainment, the motion picture <span style="text-decoration: underline">was not first developed to entertain, but it was</span> to allow detailed analysis of animal motion.
(A) was not first developed to entertain, but it was
(B) was developed not first to entertain, but it was
(C) was first developed not to entertain, but
(D) did not first develop for entertainment, but
(E) did not first develop for entertainment, but it was
---------------------------------
#SC#39#C#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Palladium prices have soared, with Russia restricting exports and because automakers have started using</span> it to make the huge engines in sport utility vehicles and other light trucks.
(A) Palladium prices have soared, with Russia restricting exports and because automakers have started using
(B) Palladium prices have soared, with Russia restricting exports, in addition to automakers that have started to use
(C) Prices for palladium have soared as Russia has restricted exports and automakers have started using
(D) Prices for palladium have soared as Russia has been restricting exports, in addition to automakers starting to use
(E) Prices for palladium have soared because Russia is restricting exports, as well as automakers that have started using
---------------------------------
#SC#40#E#100
Variability in individual physical traits <span style="text-decoration: underline">both are determined through genetic factors, environmental factors, and interaction between</span> these factors.
(A) both are determined through genetic factors, environmental factors, and interaction between
(B) are both determined by genetic factors, environmental factors, as well as interaction among
(C) both is determined by genetic factors, environmental factors, and interaction between
(D) is determined through genetic factors, environmental factors, as well as interaction among
(E) is determined by genetic factors, environmental factors, and interaction between
---------------------------------
#SC#41#E#100
A federal advisory panel proposes expanding a national computerized file to permit law-enforcement agencies to track people <span style="text-decoration: underline">under criminal investigation but</span> have not yet been charged.
(A) under criminal investigation but
(B) under criminal investigation, but who
(C) under criminal investigation, but they
(D) who are under criminal investigation, but they
(E) who are under criminal investigation but
---------------------------------
#SC#42#D#100
The reason many people consider the Mediterranean island to be ungovernable <span style="text-decoration: underline">is because that the inhabitants long ago learned to distrust and neutralize</span> all written laws.
(A) is because that the inhabitants long ago learned to distrust and neutralize
(B) is the inhabitants long ago learned distrusting and neutralizing
(C) was because of the inhabitants long ago learning to distrust and to be neutralizing
(D) is that the inhabitants long ago learned to distrust and to neutralize
(E) was on account of the inhabitants long ago learning to distrust and neutralize
---------------------------------
#SC#43#D#100
The completion in 1925 of the Holland <span style="text-decoration: underline">Tunnel, linking Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways, which permitted 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour and</span> was hailed as the decade’s $48 million engineering masterpiece.
(A) Tunnel, linking Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways, which permitted 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour and
(B) Tunnel, linking Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways and permitting 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour, it
(C) Tunnel, linking Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways and permitting 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour,
(D) Tunnel linked Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways, which permitted 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour and
(E) Tunnel linked Manhattan with New Jersey’s highways, permitting 2,000 cars to pass through each tube every hour,
---------------------------------
#SC#44#D#100
Since 1992, in an attempt to build up the Atlantic salmon population in each of the seven rivers in which salmon still spawn, state officials in Maine have stocked <span style="text-decoration: underline">them</span> with fry raised in hatcheries from eggs produced by wild fish found in that particular river.
(A) them
(B) the river
(C) the rivers
(D) each river
(E) that river
---------------------------------
#SC#45#A#100
<span style="text-decoration: underline">A researcher claims that a tornado of a given size and strength is likely to cause more deaths, both proportionately and in absolute numbers, in the southeastern region of the United States than in the northeastern.</span>
(A) A researcher claims that a tornado of a given size and strength is likely to cause more deaths, both proportionately and in absolute numbers, in the southeastern region of the United States than in the northeastern.
(B) A researcher claims that a tornado, if of a given size and strength, is likely both proportionately and in absolute numbers to cause more deaths in the southeastern region of the United States than in the northeastern.
(C) A researcher claims that, with a tornado of a given size and strength, it is likely to cause more death, both proportionately and in absolute numbers, in the southeastern rather than in the northeastern region of the United States.
(D) If a tornado is of a given size and strength, a researcher claims, it is more likely, both proportionately and in absolute numbers, to cause death if it is in the southeastern region of the United States rather than in the northeastern region.
(E) Both proportionately and in absolute numbers, a researcher claims that a tornado of a given size and strength is likely to cause more deaths in the southeastern region of the United States rather than in the northeastern.
---------------------------------
#SC#46#D#100
Because of the sharp increases in the price of gold and silver, the value of Monica Taylor's portfolio rose <span style="text-decoration: underline">as her daughter-in-law's dropped</span>.
(A) as her daughter-in-law's dropped
(B) while her daughter-in-law's has dropped
(C) as there was a drop in her daughter-in-law's
(D) while that of her daughter-in-law's dropped
(E) as it dropped for her daughter-in-law's
---------------------------------
#SC#47#C#100
In keeping with her commitment to her Christian faith, Sojourner Truth demonstrated as a public speaker <span style="text-decoration: underline">a dedication both to the nonviolent abolition of slavery as well as for women to be emancipated</span>.
(A) a dedication both to the nonviolent abolition of slavery as well as for women to be emancipated
(B) her being dedicated to both the nonviolent abolishing of slavery as well as for women’s emancipation
(C) a dedication to both the nonviolent abolition of slavery and the emancipation of women
(D) that she was dedicated both to abolishing slavery nonviolently and to emancipate women
(E) her dedication both to the nonviolent abolition of slavery and emancipation of women
---------------------------------